PMID	DRUG	AE	LlamaTiFirst	LlamaAbFirst	pAuth_modelA	pAuth_modelB	aAuth	Title	Abstract
30148913	Methotrexate	Subacute Combined Degeneration	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Spinal subacute combined degeneration after intrathecal chemotherapy. Report of two cases].	Intrathecal chemotherapy may be complicated with the development of myelopathies or toxic radiculopathies. This myeloradicular involvement, of toxic character, is unpredictable, since these patients have repeatedly received Intrathecal chemotherapy with the same drugs without apparent injury. The toxic effect should be mainly attributed to Cytarabine and not to methotrexate, since the central nervous system lacks Cytidine deaminase, the enzyme that degrades Cytarabine. We report two patients, an 18-year-old woman and a 16 years old male, who received systemic and intrathecal chemotherapy (methotrexate, cytarabine) for the treatment of an acute lymphoblastic leukemia and developed, in relation to this procedure, a spinal subacute combined degeneration. They had a proprioceptive and motor alteration of the lower extremities and neuroimaging showed selective rear and side spinal cord hyper intensity produced by central axonopathy. Two weeks later the woman developed a quadriplegia and the young man a flaccid paraplegia due to added root involvement.
29767581	Cisplatin	Liver Failure, Acute	1	1	0	0	0.0	Lethal hepatotoxicity following 5-fluorouracil/cisplatin chemotherapy: a relevant case report.	Some articles have reported severe toxicities induced by cisplatin/5-fluorouracil regimens, nevertheless, severe and lethal liver toxicity has not been previously reported. In this article, we report the case of a 72-year-old woman, who developed fulminant hepatitis, hypoglycemia and hypotension with atrial fibrillation not responding to treatment. After ruling out all other possible causes of hepatitis, the toxicity was more likely attributed to 5-fluorouracil. Genotyping was performed and the patient was found to be a homozygote carrier of the T variant of the MTHFR gene. The patient died two days later. Several factors, including genetic factors, could explain this severe toxicity. The present case discusses the importance of personalized medicine in oncology based on pharmacogenetic analysis of polymorphisms.
29767581	Fluorouracil	Liver Failure, Acute	1	1	0	0	0.0	Lethal hepatotoxicity following 5-fluorouracil/cisplatin chemotherapy: a relevant case report.	Some articles have reported severe toxicities induced by cisplatin/5-fluorouracil regimens, nevertheless, severe and lethal liver toxicity has not been previously reported. In this article, we report the case of a 72-year-old woman, who developed fulminant hepatitis, hypoglycemia and hypotension with atrial fibrillation not responding to treatment. After ruling out all other possible causes of hepatitis, the toxicity was more likely attributed to 5-fluorouracil. Genotyping was performed and the patient was found to be a homozygote carrier of the T variant of the MTHFR gene. The patient died two days later. Several factors, including genetic factors, could explain this severe toxicity. The present case discusses the importance of personalized medicine in oncology based on pharmacogenetic analysis of polymorphisms.
29515281	Dapsone	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fatal dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome with hypothyroidism and steroid-induced diabetes mellitus.	Dapsone has been part of the World Health Organization multidrug therapy for the treatment of leprosy. While it has been efficacious in the management of leprosy, there are many patients who develop adverse drug reactions to the drug including life-threatening reactions such as dapsone hypersensitivity syndrome (DHS). We report a case of a patient who was prescribed dapsone as part of multidrug therapy for leprosy following which she developed DHS. Her condition worsened after tapering the oral steroids given to manage the DHS, and she was detected to have hypothyroidism. She developed diabetes mellitus and succumbed to septic shock.
29476878	Betamethasone	Hypercalcemia	0	1	0	0		Low systemic exposure and calcemic effect of calcipotriol/betamethasone ointment in rats with imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like dermatitis.	Vitamin D(3) (VD(3)) analogues-containing ointments are known to occasionally cause hypercalcemia in psoriasis patients, and the frequency of hypercalcemia is suggested to vary based on the VD(3) analogue used. In this study, to address the differences in calcemic effects of VD(3)-containing ointments, the calcemic effects of marketed VD(3)-containing ointments, including calcipotriol (Cal), maxacalcitol (Max), tacalcitol (Tac), calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate (Cal/BDP) and maxacalcitol/betamethasone butyrate propionate (Max/BBP) ointments, were evaluated in a rat model of imiquimod-induced dermatitis. The topical application of Tac, Max and Max/BBP ointments, but not Cal and Cal/BDP ointments, to the imiquimod-induced skin lesions significantly induced an increase in the serum calcium level compared with the vaseline-treated group. Calcemic effect of VD(3) analogues in rats treated with VD(3)-containing ointments was analyzed by evaluating the expression of vitamin D receptor target genes, such as Cyp24a1, Trpv5 and CalbindinD28k, in the intestine and kidney. Real-time reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) analysis showed that the renal and intestinal Cyp24a1 expressions in the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups were significantly lower than those in the Tac-, Max- and Max/BBP-treated groups, suggesting that systemic exposure of VD(3) analogues in the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups were lower than those in the other ointment-treated groups. In addition, the renal Trpv5 and CalbindinD28k expressions, calcium-transporting genes, were increased in the Max- and Max/BBP-treated groups compared with the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups. Thus, because of the low systemic exposure of VD(3) analogues, Cal and Cal/BDP ointments have lower calcemic effect than the other VD(3)-containing ointments in rats with psoriasis-like dermatitis.
29476878	Clobetasol	Hypercalcemia	0	1	0	0		Low systemic exposure and calcemic effect of calcipotriol/betamethasone ointment in rats with imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like dermatitis.	Vitamin D(3) (VD(3)) analogues-containing ointments are known to occasionally cause hypercalcemia in psoriasis patients, and the frequency of hypercalcemia is suggested to vary based on the VD(3) analogue used. In this study, to address the differences in calcemic effects of VD(3)-containing ointments, the calcemic effects of marketed VD(3)-containing ointments, including calcipotriol (Cal), maxacalcitol (Max), tacalcitol (Tac), calcipotriol/betamethasone dipropionate (Cal/BDP) and maxacalcitol/betamethasone butyrate propionate (Max/BBP) ointments, were evaluated in a rat model of imiquimod-induced dermatitis. The topical application of Tac, Max and Max/BBP ointments, but not Cal and Cal/BDP ointments, to the imiquimod-induced skin lesions significantly induced an increase in the serum calcium level compared with the vaseline-treated group. Calcemic effect of VD(3) analogues in rats treated with VD(3)-containing ointments was analyzed by evaluating the expression of vitamin D receptor target genes, such as Cyp24a1, Trpv5 and CalbindinD28k, in the intestine and kidney. Real-time reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) analysis showed that the renal and intestinal Cyp24a1 expressions in the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups were significantly lower than those in the Tac-, Max- and Max/BBP-treated groups, suggesting that systemic exposure of VD(3) analogues in the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups were lower than those in the other ointment-treated groups. In addition, the renal Trpv5 and CalbindinD28k expressions, calcium-transporting genes, were increased in the Max- and Max/BBP-treated groups compared with the Cal- and Cal/BDP-treated groups. Thus, because of the low systemic exposure of VD(3) analogues, Cal and Cal/BDP ointments have lower calcemic effect than the other VD(3)-containing ointments in rats with psoriasis-like dermatitis.
29472509	Sodium Chloride	Phlebitis	1	0	0	0		Association between continuous peripheral i.v. infusion of 3% sodium chloride injection and phlebitis in adults.	PURPOSE: One institution's experience with use of peripheral i.v. (PIV) catheters for prolonged infusions of 3% sodium chloride injection at rates up to 100 mL/hr is described. METHODS: A prospective, observational, 13-month quality assurance project was conducted at an academic medical center to evaluate frequencies of patient and catheter phlebitis among adult inpatients who received both an infusion of 3% sodium chloride injection for a period of >/=4 hours through a dedicated PIV catheter and infusions of routine-care solutions (RCSs) through separate PIV catheters during the same hospital stay. RESULTS: Sixty patients received PIV infusions through a total of 291 catheters during the study period. The majority of patients (78%) received infusions of 3% sodium chloride injection for intracranial hypertension, with 30% receiving such infusions in the intensive care unit. Phlebitis occurred in 28 patients (47%) during infusions of 3% sodium chloride and 26 patients (43%) during RCS infusions (p = 0.19). Catheter phlebitis occurred in 73 catheters (25%), with no significant difference in the frequencies of catheter phlebitis with infusion of 3% sodium chloride versus RCSs (30% [32 of 106 catheters]) versus 22% [41 of 185 catheters]), p = 0.16). CONCLUSION: Patient and catheter phlebitis rates were not significantly different with infusions of 3% sodium chloride injection versus RCSs, suggesting that an osmolarity cutoff value of 900 mOsm/L for peripheral infusions of hypertonic saline solutions may not be warranted.
29427835	Phenytoin	Sensation Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Phenytoin-related ataxia in patients with epilepsy: clinical and radiological characteristics.	PURPOSE: Phenytoin is an effective anticonvulsant for focal epilepsy. Its use can be associated with long-term adverse effects including cerebellar ataxia. Whilst phenytoin is toxic to Purkinje cells in vitro; the clinical and radiological phenotype and mechanism of cerebellar degeneration in vivo remain unclear. We describe the prevalence, clinical and radiological characteristics of phenytoin-related ataxia. METHODS: Patients with epilepsy receiving treatment with phenytoin were recruited from the Epilepsy clinics at Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK. Neurological examination was performed on all patients after recruitment. Patients were categorised into those with and without ataxia. We determined the severity of ataxia clinically (SARA score) and the pattern of cerebellar involvement by neuroimaging (MRI volumetry and MR spectroscopy). RESULTS: Forty-seven patients were recruited. Median duration of epilepsy was 24 years, median duration of phenytoin treatment was 15 years and current median phenytoin daily dose was 325 mg. Fifty-five percent of patients complained of poor balance. Clinical evidence of ataxia was seen in 40% patients. Gait, stance and heel-shin slide were the predominant features of cerebellar dysfunction. MRI demonstrated structural, volumetric and functional deficits of the cerebellum. Only one patient with ataxia had phenytoin levels above the normal range. CONCLUSIONS: Cerebellar ataxia is present in 40% of patients with epilepsy and chronic exposure to phenytoin. Patients on long-term phenytoin have reduced cerebellar volume even if they have no clinical evidence of ataxia. Evidence of structural deficits on imaging suggests a predilection for vermian involvement.
28029349	Gold Sodium Thiosulfate	Hand Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Retrospective Observational Epidemiologic Study of Sensitization to Gold Sodium Thiosulfate in the Allergy Clinic of a Tertiary Hospital.	
27460941	Dabigatran	Eosinophilia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Dabigatran can cause eosinophilic pleural and pericardial effusion with blood eosinophilia.	Eosinophilic pleural effusions (EPE) account for 5%-8% of all exudative pleural effusions. A pleural effusion is defined as eosinophilic if it contains 10% or more eosinophils. We present the case of a 70-year-old man with EPE, blood eosinophilia and pericardial effusion due to dabigatran, a novel anti-thrombin agent.
29631026	Soybean Oil	Fish Diseases	0	0	0	0		High level of dietary soybean oil depresses the growth and anti-oxidative capacity and induces inflammatory response in large yellow croaker Larimichthys crocea.	Increasing demand, uncertain availability and high price of fish oil with the expansion of aquaculture made it essential to search alternative lipid sources. Vegetable oil has been proved to be the best candidate for the replacement of fish oil in aquafeeds. However, this replacement especially in high level potentially has some negative effects on fish. The present study was conducted to investigate the growth performance, anti-oxidative and inflammatory responses of large yellow croaker to replacement of dietary fish oil by soybean oil. Three isonitrogenous (46% crude protein) and isolipidic (13% crude lipids) diets were formulated to feed fish (initial body weight: 36.80 +/- 0.39 g) for 12 weeks. The control diet was designed to contain 6.5% of fish oil, and named as FO. On the basis of the control diet, the fish oil was 50% and 100% replaced by soybean oil, and these two diets were named as FS and SO, respectively. Results showed that the specific growth rate significantly decreased in the SO group. Crude lipid contents in muscle and liver of fish fed SO diet were significantly higher than those in the FO group. The ratio of n-3 poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) to identified fatty acids in liver decreased significantly, while n-6 PUFAs increased significantly with increasing dietary soybean oil inclusion. The levels of triacylglycerol, non-esterified fatty acid and tumour necrosis factor alpha, and the activity of aspartate aminotransferase in serum significantly increased in SO group. The total anti-oxidative capacity and expressions of the anti-oxidation-related genes (superoxide dismutase 1 and 2, catalase, glutathion peroxidase and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2) were significantly decreased by dietary soybean inclusion. Dietary soybean oil significantly decreased the gene expressions of the anti-inflammatory cytokines (arginase I and interleukin 10), and increased the pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumour necrosis factor alpha and interleukin 1beta). The replacement of dietary fish oil by soybean oil also induced an over-expression of toll-like receptor 22 and myeloid differentiation factor 88 in liver. In conclusion, dietary soybean oil could suppress growth performance and liver anti-oxidative capacity, and induce inflammatory responses of large yellow croaker.
29425544	Ranibizumab	Ischemia	0	1	0	0		Ranibizumab and digital ischemia.	Case report of a patient with age-related macular degeneration whose digital ischemia can most plausibly be attributed to ranibizumab. PURPOSE: To report ranibizumab as the probable cause of digital ischemia in a patient treated for age-related macular degeneration. METHODS: Single-patient case report. RESULTS: An 83-year-old woman with an unremarkable medical history suffered acute ischemia in her left hand with necrosis of the distal phalange of the fifth finger after six intravitreal injections of ranibizumab. Her etiological work-up was negative. Her condition improved after endovascular revascularization and remained good at six months' follow-up after three months of dual antithrombotic therapy (low molecular weight heparin then rivaroxaban, both with aspirin) followed by rivaroxaban alone and four courses of intravenous iloprost. CONCLUSION: The increased incidence of peripheral arterial thromboembolic events in patients under ranibizumab treatment is slight but significant, with 0.8-5% of patients affected, most of which suffer strokes. These events seem to occur at a random time after ranibizumab treatment is initiated and no reliable marker has yet been identified. The most probable cause of digital ischemia in our patient was ranibizumab.
29472424	Pentobarbital	Acidosis, Lactic	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pentobarbital-induced lactic acidosis following status epilepticus barbiturate coma.	We present a rare case of pentobarbital infusion causing propylene glycol-induced lactic acidosis, during refractory status epilepticus treatment in a 66-year-old man without seizure history.
28471252	Gold	Postoperative Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Type IV Hypersensitivity to Gold Weight Upper-Eyelid Implant: Case Report and Review of the Literature.	PURPOSE: Complications associated with gold-weight insertion for lagophthalmos are uncommon, recent reports have provided evidence to suggest that type IV hypersensitivity to gold can cause a persistent inflammatory reaction. METHODS: We present a case of a 46-year-old man who experienced persistent post-operative inflammation, and summarize previously documented cases. This patient underwent uncomplicated insertion of an upper eyelid gold weight for right-sided facial nerve palsy. He had no allergies or implanted metalwork. Post-operatively erythema was noted at seven-weeks and did not resolve. The weight was removed after six-months. RESULTS: The histopathological findings were in keeping with type IV hypersensitivity and similar to previous cases. CONCLUSIONS: Although infrequent, this complication has poor outcomes. The definitive management is removal of the weight. Information regarding implanted gold, and previous reactions should be elicited pre-operatively. Type IV hypersensitivity should be considered in patients with persistent inflammation that do not respond to antibiotic or steroid therapy.
29641494	Sodium Chloride	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Maternal Melatonin Therapy Attenuated Maternal High-Fructose Combined with Post-Weaning High-Salt Diets-Induced Hypertension in Adult Male Rat Offspring.	Consumption of food high in fructose and salt is associated with the epidemic of hypertension. Hypertension can originate from early life. Melatonin, a pleiotropic hormone, regulates blood pressure. We examined whether maternal melatonin therapy can prevent maternal high-fructose combined with post-weaning high-salt diet-induced programmed hypertension in adult offspring. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats received either a normal diet (ND) or a 60% fructose diet (HF) during pregnancy and the lactation period. Male offspring were on either the ND or a high-salt diet (HS, 1% NaCl) from weaning to 12 weeks of age and were assigned to five groups (n = 8/group): ND/ND, HF/ND, ND/HS, HF/HS, and HF/HS+melatonin. Melatonin (0.01% in drinking water) was administered during pregnancy and lactation. We observed that maternal HF combined with post-weaning HS diets induced hypertension in male adult offspring, which was attenuated by maternal melatonin therapy. The beneficial effects of maternal melatonin therapy on HF/HS-induced hypertension related to regulating several nutrient-sensing signals, including Sirt1, Sirt4, Prkaa2, Prkab2, Pparg, and Ppargc1a. Additionally, melatonin increased protein levels of mammalian targets of rapamycin (mTOR), decreased plasma asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and symmetric dimethylarginine levels, and increased the l-arginine-to-ADMA ratio. The reprogramming effects by which maternal melatonin therapy protects against hypertension of developmental origin awaits further elucidation.
29512790	Hydrogen Peroxide	Brain Injuries	0	0	0	0		Neuroprotective effects of N-acetyl cysteine on primary hippocampus neurons against hydrogen peroxide-induced injury are mediated via inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinases signal transduction and antioxidative action.	N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) has been extensively reported to exert neuroprotective effects on the central nervous system. Oxidative stress may contribute to the underlying mechanisms causing Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effect of NAC against oxidative stress injury was investigated in a cellular model of AD in the present study and the underlying mechanisms were revealed. The neuroprotective action of NAC (1, 10, 100 and 1,000 micromol/l) on a cellular model of AD [hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)‑induced (3, 30 and 300 micromol/l) toxicity in primary rat hippocampus neurons] demonstrated the underlying mechanisms. Cytotoxicity was measured using the MTT assay, and light microscopy and the dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein diacetate method were used to detect the reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. Furthermore, the levels of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signal transduction and tau protein phosphorylation were measured via western blotting. NAC (100 micromol/l) protected hippocampus neurons against H2O2‑mediated toxicity, as evidenced by enhanced cell viability. Using MTT assay and light microscopy for the observation of cell death, NAC ameliorated cell viability, which was induced by H2O2 injury (P<0.05). NAC was found to mitigate the excessive production of ROS (P<0.05). Another mechanism involved in the neuroprotective action of NAC may be its ability to inhibit MAPK signal transduction following H2O2 exposure. In addition, NAC may protect cells against H2O2‑induced toxicity by attenuating increased tau phosphorylation. Thus, the protective ability of NAC is hypothesized to result from inhibition of oxidative stress and downregulation of MAPK signal transduction and tau phosphorylation.
29507024	Rivaroxaban	Rupture, Spontaneous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Spontaneous splenic rupture due to rivaroxaban.	In the prevention and treatment of thromboembolic disease, novel oral anticoagulants have emerged as alternatives to warfarin. A major challenge continues to be the reversal of their anticoagulant effect in the case of life-threatening haemorrhagic complications. We report a case of spontaneous splenic rupture treated by splenic artery embolisation in a 77-year-old woman who was anticoagulated with rivaroxaban.
29488615	Isosorbide Dinitrate	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		High sucrose/fat diet and isosorbide mononitrate increase insulin resistance, nitric oxide production and myocardial apoptosis in a hypertensive rat model.	The present study aimed to investigate the association between insulin resistance (IR), nitric oxide (NO) production and myocardial apoptosis in a background of coexisting hypertension in a rodent animal model. A hypertensive rat model was established by feeding Wistar and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with a high sucrose/fat (HSF) diet for 12 weeks, in conjunction with isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN). Increased IR, NO content, apoptotic gene and protein expression, and morphological alterations within rat myocardium were evaluated. Following a total of 12 weeks of feeding with HSF and ISMN resulted in increased IR and NO content within the myocardial tissue of Wistar and SHR rats. HSF and ISMN activated myocardial apoptosis by downregulating the gene transcription and protein expression levels of the anti‑apoptotic B‑cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl‑2), and increasing the pro‑apoptotic Bcl‑2 associated X protein. Apoptosis was demonstrated by DNA fragmentation in terminal deoxynucleotidyl‑transferase‑mediated dUTP nick end labelling assay. In all experiments, the combination of HSF and ISMN was associated with more pronounced effects, indicating the possible synergistic effects. In addition, the correlation analysis in the Wistar rats fed with HSF only, revealed a positive association between NO production and IR. The results of the present study indicated that HSF and ISMN simultaneously increased IR, NO production and myocardial apoptosis in the hypertensive rat model, and may therefore contribute to investigations into the long‑term clinical use of ISMN in hypertensive patients.
27543192	Imatinib Mesylate	Melanosis	0	0	0	0		Horizontal melanonychia.	
29409941	Infliximab	Vasculitis, Leukocytoclastic, Cutaneous	1	0	0	0		An Unusual Cause of Skin Rash in Crohn's Disease.	
29171003	Diazepam	Drug Resistant Epilepsy	1	0	0	0		Inhibition of monoacylglycerol lipase terminates diazepam-resistant status epilepticus in mice and its effects are potentiated by a ketogenic diet.	OBJECTIVE: Status epilepticus (SE) is a life-threatening and commonly drug-refractory condition. Novel therapies are needed to rapidly terminate seizures to prevent mortality and morbidity. Monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) is the key enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and a major contributor to the brain pool of arachidonic acid (AA). Inhibiting of monoacylglycerol lipase modulates synaptic activity and neuroinflammation, 2 mediators of excessive neuronal activation underlying seizures. We studied the effect of a potent and selective irreversible MAGL inhibitor, CPD-4645, on SE that was refractory to diazepam, its neuropathologic sequelae, and the mechanism underlying the drug's effects. METHODS: Diazepam-resistant SE was induced in adult mice fed with standard or ketogenic diet or in cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) receptor knock-out mice. CPD-4645 (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously) or vehicle was dosed 1 and 7 h after status epilepticus onset in video-electroencephalography (EEG) recorded mice. At the end of SE, mice were examined in the novel object recognition test followed by neuronal cellloss analysis. RESULTS: CPD-4645 maximal plasma and brain concentrations were attained 0.5 h postinjection (half-life = 3.7 h) and elevated brain 2-AG levels by approximately 4-fold. CPD-4645 administered to standard diet-fed mice progressively reduced spike frequency during 3 h postinjection, thereby shortening SE duration by 47%. The drug immediately abrogated SE in ketogenic diet-fed mice. CPD-4645 rescued neuronal cell loss and cognitive deficit and reduced interleukin (IL)-1beta and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) brain expression resulting from SE. The CPD-4645 effect on SE was similar in mice lacking CB1 receptors. SIGNIFICANCE: MAGL represents a novel therapeutic target for treating status epilepticus and improving its sequelae. CPD-4645 therapeutic effects appear to be predominantly mediated by modulation of neuroinflammation.
29120005	Nitrous Oxide	Gait Disorders, Neurologic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Peripheral Neuropathy Due to Recreational Use of Nitrous Oxide Presenting After an Ankle Sprain With Foot Drop.	A 22-year-old man was referred for orthopedic follow-up after an ankle injury. Initial evaluation in urgent care included radiographs with negative findings. After a delayed presentation, a course of functional treatment was recommended. Subsequently, he developed a deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli. He was found to be factor V Leiden deficient and was fully anticoagulated on warfarin. Later reevaluation revealed a steppage gait and foot drop. Electrodiagnostic studies (ie, electromyography and nerve conduction studies) revealed a severe peripheral polyneuropathy. The patient admitted to engaging in high-volume recreational use of nitrous oxide. Neurological evaluation confirmed vitamin B12 deficiency consistent with the toxic effects of nitrous oxide. The patient's condition improved with vitamin B supplementation, bracing, and avoidance of nitrous oxide and similar neurotoxins. He participated in a 3-month physical rehabilitation program, and he displayed partial recovery at most recent follow-up. [Orthopedics. 2018; 41(3):e432-e433.].
29039158	Rifampin	Intraoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Total spinal block, bupivacaine toxicity or else under epidural anaesthesia?	
27319962	Methotrexate	Nasal Septal Perforation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Methotrexate-Induced Nasal Septal Perforation.	A 58-year-old woman with a 31-year history of Hailey-Hailey (HH) disease that was refractory to treatment with mycophenolate mofetil, cyclosporine, dapsone, sulfasalazine, topical/oral antibiotics, and topical/oral steroids presented for alternative treatment options. Active erythematous, malodorous, eroded, and crusted plaques were present in the axillae, inframammary region, groin, and back (Figure 1). The patient had an undulant course, with acute exacerbations and partial remissions. During a 3-year period, she was prescribed oral methotrexate at a dose of 10 mg to 15 mg per week with daily oral folic acid (1 mg) supplementation, except on the day she took methotrexate. Oral clarithromycin and prednisone were also used intermittently for antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effects.
30148931	Bupropion	Coma	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Sustained upgaze in a patient who ingested high doses of bupropion. Report of one case].	Upgaze or sustained elevation of the eyes, is an alteration of ocular motility initially described in hypoxic coma. We report a 65-year-old woman admitted with hypotension and alteration of sensorium due to the ingestion of 9.5 g of Bupropion. She presented two seizures of short duration, without epileptic activity on the EEG. She had a persistent asynchronous myoclonus in extremities, tachycardia and prolonged Q-t. She suffered a cardiac arrest caused by asystole, which recovered quickly in five minutes. At that moment, upgaze appeared, associated with a persistent ocular opening, which persisted for days, but finally disappeared, without remission of coma. A magnetic resonance imaging done at the eighth day, showed hyperintensity of the oval center and corpus callosum which disappeared in a new imaging study done 30 days later, where images of hypoxia in the basal nuclei and cortex appeared. The patient died forty seven days after admission. Up-gaze is an ominous oculomotor alteration linked to an important but incomplete damage in the cerebral cortex, a condition that perverts some sequences of the ocular opening, reversing the Bell phenomenon and producing eyelid retraction.
29615102	Nifedipine	Jaundice	1	1	1	1	1.0	A case report of nifedipine-induced hepatitis with jaundice.	BACKGROUND: Nifedipine is a generic, well-known and commonly-prescribed dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension and Prinzmetal's angina. A known but very rare and serious adverse effect of nifedipine is clinically-apparent hepatitis which can take months to resolve. CASE PRESENTATION: Here we present a case of nifedipine-induced hepatitis in a 78-year-old Caucasian female with no prior history of liver or autoimmune disease. We discuss our investigative and management approach, and present a review of prior cases. We offer an approach for patients who present with signs of acute liver injury with jaundice and high elevations in serum transaminases. CONCLUSION: Not much is known about nifedipine-induced hepatitis due to its rare occurrence. Its prevalence is unknown. The disease appears to afflict older men and women. It can present acutely (within days) or subacutely (within 4-8 weeks after medication start) and in an idiosyncratic manner. Chronic or latent cases have also been described, some diagnosed as late as 3 years after medication start. Common symptoms include jaundice, nausea, chills, rigors, diaphoresis, fatigue, and abdominal pain. Laboratory investigations often reveal profound elevations in AST, ALT, GGT, and conjugated bilirubin. Peripheral blood smear may demonstrate eosinophilia. Histology from liver biopsy typically demonstrates infiltration of immune cells, cholestasis, and a picture of steatohepatitis. Treatment involves immediate discontinuation of the drug with supportive care. Thus far, all published instances of nifedipine-induced hepatitis were self-limiting without mortality due to fulminant liver failure. However, this disease can take months to resolve. There is no randomized evidence for other treatments such as corticosteroids.
29565276	Niacin	Glaucoma, Open-Angle	1	0	0	0		Dietary Niacin and Open-Angle Glaucoma: The Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.	Glaucoma is a leading cause of loss of sight. High intraocular pressure (IOP) is the most critical risk factor. However, glaucoma develops even within a normal IOP range. Normal tension glaucoma (NTG) is more common in Asia, whereas high tension glaucoma is more common in Western countries. The pathogenesis of glaucoma, especially NTG, is poorly understood. We evaluated the correlation between dietary nutrient intake and glaucoma using data from subjects >/=40 years old from the ongoing, nationwide, population-based study, the Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey V (2008-2012). Dietary intake was determined using the 24 h recall method. Fiber (g/day), ash (g/day), calcium (mg/day), phosphorus (mg/day), iron (mg/day), sodium (mg/day), potassium (mg/day), beta-Carotene (mug/day), retinol (mug/day), vitamin A (mug Retinol Equivalents/day), thiamine (mg/day), riboflavin (mg/day), niacin (mg/day), and vitamin C (mg/day) were included in nutrient intake data. All nutrient intake was divided into quartiles. The mean IOP did not differ according to quartiles from any nutrients (all p > 0.05). After adjusting for age, gender, income status, education level, smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, diabetes, hypertension, IOP, and total energy, the intake of niacin was associated with glaucoma (p = 0.013). Among subjects with IOP </= 21 mmHg, only niacin was related to glaucoma in a multivariate analysis (p = 0.022). Dietary nutrient intake was associated with open-angle glaucoma independent of IOP. Individuals with NTG showed lower intake of niacin among nutrients. This finding suggests the possibility that proper diet counseling may be another modifiable factor, aside from IOP, particularly among patients with NTG.
29348123	Rivaroxaban	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Rash associated with rivaroxaban use.	PURPOSE: A case of a patient who developed a hypersensitivity reaction to rivaroxaban in the form of a diffuse, exanthematous rash is reported. SUMMARY: After starting rivaroxaban for treatment of cancer-associated deep vein thrombosis (DVT) with pulmonary embolism (PE), a 69-year-old Caucasian woman arrived at an oncology clinic with a diffuse, exanthematous (morbilliform) rash on her neck and torso, spreading to her upper and lower extremities. She reported that the symptoms started to develop about 48 hours after transitioning from subcutaneous enoxaparin to oral rivaroxaban. The patient's symptoms did not subside with diphenhydramine 25-50 mg orally every 6-8 hours. The patient was switched back to enoxaparin therapy for continued anticoagulation therapy. On day 5, rivaroxaban and diphenhydramine were discontinued. Oral dexamethasone 4 mg twice daily was initiated, and the patient transitioned from rivaroxaban to enoxaparin 1 mg/kg every 12 hours subcutaneously. On day 8, the rash had diminished considerably and was present only on her thighs. Analysis of the case using the adverse drug reaction probability scale of Naranjo et al. indicated that rivaroxaban was the probable cause of the hypersensitivity reaction. Four prior case reports of rivaroxaban hypersensitivity manifesting as a rash have been previously reported, with this being the first in a female and the first in a patient undergoing treatment of DVT and PE in the setting of active cancer. CONCLUSION: A 69-year-old Caucasian woman developed a diffuse, exanthematous rash on day 3 of rivaroxaban treatment. Symptoms abated after rivaroxaban discontinuation and treatment with dexamethasone.
29309397	Guanine	Osteoporosis	0	0	0	0		Assessment of bone mineral density in patients with cirrhosis treated with third-generation nucleos(t)ide analogues: comparison between tenofovir and entecavir.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Tenofovir and entecavir are nowadays the first-line treatment in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis. Both drugs were shown to be effective in HBV suppression and well tolerated. The effects of tenofovir on bone mineral density (BMD), however, were shown to worsen the rate of osteoporosis, which is already a common feature in cirrhosis. In contrast, entecavir seems to have no effect on mineral metabolism. The aim of our study was to compare the effects of nucleos(t)ide analogs on bone density in HBV-related cirrhosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fourty-eight patients were treated with tenofovir and 22 patients were treated with entecavir, and were followed prospectively from 2008 to 2013. To evaluate BMD, laboratory examinations, dual-X-ray absorptiometry, and Fracture Risk Assessment Tool were assessed. RESULTS: During the study, no difference was found between the two groups in the plasmatic concentration of calcium, phosphate, vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, or creatinine. Dual-X-ray absorptiometry showed no difference in the T-score and Fracture Risk Assessment Tool showed no significant difference in the 10-year risk of osteoporotic fractures in the two groups. On univariate and multivariate analyses, the only predictors of osteoporosis development were the prognostic scores of liver disease and BMI. CONCLUSION: Both tenofovir and entecavir are effective in treating HBV in cirrhotic patients. The known effects of tenofovir on BMD do not worsen osteoporotic fractures risk compared with entecavir in these patients.
29309397	Tenofovir	Osteoporotic Fractures	0	0	0	0		Assessment of bone mineral density in patients with cirrhosis treated with third-generation nucleos(t)ide analogues: comparison between tenofovir and entecavir.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Tenofovir and entecavir are nowadays the first-line treatment in hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis. Both drugs were shown to be effective in HBV suppression and well tolerated. The effects of tenofovir on bone mineral density (BMD), however, were shown to worsen the rate of osteoporosis, which is already a common feature in cirrhosis. In contrast, entecavir seems to have no effect on mineral metabolism. The aim of our study was to compare the effects of nucleos(t)ide analogs on bone density in HBV-related cirrhosis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Fourty-eight patients were treated with tenofovir and 22 patients were treated with entecavir, and were followed prospectively from 2008 to 2013. To evaluate BMD, laboratory examinations, dual-X-ray absorptiometry, and Fracture Risk Assessment Tool were assessed. RESULTS: During the study, no difference was found between the two groups in the plasmatic concentration of calcium, phosphate, vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, or creatinine. Dual-X-ray absorptiometry showed no difference in the T-score and Fracture Risk Assessment Tool showed no significant difference in the 10-year risk of osteoporotic fractures in the two groups. On univariate and multivariate analyses, the only predictors of osteoporosis development were the prognostic scores of liver disease and BMI. CONCLUSION: Both tenofovir and entecavir are effective in treating HBV in cirrhotic patients. The known effects of tenofovir on BMD do not worsen osteoporotic fractures risk compared with entecavir in these patients.
29175466	Methylene Blue	Stomatitis	0	0	0	0		Photodynamic therapy for treatment of oral mucositis: Pilot study with pediatric patients undergoing chemotherapy.	BACKGROUND: Oral mucositis has become a major dose-limiting toxicity of antineoplastic treatment. AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) and low level laser therapy (LLLT) on the treatment of chemotherapy-induced mucositis in pediatric patients. METHODS: An open, controlled, and blind, randomized clinical trial was conducted with 29 patients, from 10 months to 18 years old, who were divided into two groups. Group A was submitted to photodynamic therapy (0.01% Methylene Blue and red laser, lambda660 nm) with 3J energy per point; and Group B submitted to low level laser therapy (lambda660 nm) with 1J energy per point. The results were evaluated by using the WHO and ChIMES mucositis scales. The Chi-square, Exact Fisher, Student's-t and Mann-Whitney tests, and the mixed linear regression model were used for comparison between the groups, with the maximum error admitted of 5%. RESULTS: There was no difference between the groups as regards the number of sessions necessary for clinical cure of the oral lesions (p = 0.954) or reduction in pain reported by the patients (p = 0.258; p = 0.486). Within each group, however, there was significant reduction in pain (p = 0.032; p = 0.003). The number needed to treat (NNT) was 4.75. CONCLUSIONS: PDT or LLLT could be used for treatment of oral mucositis in children/young patients. Each were well tolerated and presented satisfactory results in reducing pain associated with the lesion.
28862347	Hydroxyethyl Starch Derivatives	Cat Diseases	0	0	0	0		Effects of Hydroxyethyl Starch 130/0.4 on Serum Creatinine Concentration and Development of Acute Kidney Injury in Nonazotemic Cats.	BACKGROUND: Hydroxyethyl-starch (HES) solutions might have renal adverse effects in humans and dogs. OBJECTIVE: To determine if administration of 6% HES-130/0.4 is associated with an increase in serum creatinine concentration and development of acute kidney injury (AKI) in nonazotemic cats. ANIMALS: A total of 62 critically ill cats; 26 HES exposed and 36 unexposed. METHODS: Retrospective cohort study (2012-2015). Serum creatinine concentrations were recorded and changes in serum creatinine concentrations before exposure (baseline) and 2-10 and 11-90 days, respectively, were determined. Development of AKI was defined as a > 150% increase or >26 mumol/L increase in serum creatinine concentration from baseline. Risk factors, such as HES administration, cumulative volume of HES (mL/kg) and number of days of HES administration leading to development of AKI, and change in serum creatinine were analyzed. RESULTS: Cats in the HES cohort received a mean volume of 98.5 +/- 76.2 mL/kg (range, 8-278 mL/kg) HES over a median of 4 (range, 1-11) days, resulting in a median dose of 20.1 (range, 8-40.5) mL/kg per day. Short-term %change in serum creatinine concentration (P = 0.40) and development of AKI (P = 0.32) were not significantly different between cohorts. Multivariable logistic regression did not identify HES dose in mL/kg (P = 0.33) and number of days of HES application (P = 0.49) as a risk factor for development of AKI. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: Hydroxyethyl-starch administration to critically ill nonazotemic cats seems to be safe. A larger prospective study is required to determine the effect of HES administration at higher dosages and for prolonged time periods.
28834423	Amphetamine	Dental Caries	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Gingivitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Mouth Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Periodontal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Stomatitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Temporomandibular Joint Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Tooth Discoloration	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Tooth Loss	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28834423	Amphetamine	Xerostomia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Khat (Catha edulis) and its oral health effects: An updated review.	Khat or qat (Catha edulis) is a plant that grows in East Africa and southern Arabia. The leaves and twigs of this small tree are chewed by several millions of people worldwide for their stimulating amphetamine-like effects. The reported prevalence of khat chewing in Europe and the USA is on the rise, especially with global migration. Long-term khat chewing has several detrimental general and oral health effects. The aim of the present study was to review the current literature regarding khat use and its association with oral and dental diseases, with particular emphasis on its link with oral keratotic white lesions and oral cancer. We searched the literature to identify all relevant articles. Studies showed that khat is associated with several oral and dental conditions, including keratotic white lesions, mucosal pigmentation, periodontal disease, tooth loss, plasma cell stomatitis, and xerostomia. There are limited data on the incidence of dental caries among khat chewers. The evidence that khat chewing is a risk factor for oral cancer is still weak, and is mainly based on anecdotal case reports and uncontrolled studies.
28823096	Dibutyl Phthalate	Obesity	0	1	0	0		Sub-chronic exposure to low concentration of dibutyl phthalate affects anthropometric parameters and markers of obesity in rats.	"Dibutyl phthalate is an important phthalate ester extensively used in various products like plastics, adhesives, inks, pharmaceuticals, lacquers, varnishes, paper coatings, safety glasses, and cosmetics. The exposure of DBP to ""one's health"" is therefore inevitable. The present study focuses on elucidating the effect of low doses of DBP on anthropometric parameters and markers of obesity in rats in a 13-week study. A total of 48 rats were divided into three treatment groups as mg DBP/kg body weight per day: (a) 0 mg/kg (control), (b) 10 mg/kg (DBP-10), and (c) 50 mg/kg (DBP-50). The rats in each treatment (n = 16) were further equally divided into male and female rats for studying treatment and gender interaction. Anthropometric parameters, nutritional determinants, and markers of obesity in rats were studied. Two-way ANOVA was used to analyze the data (p < 0.05). Tukey's post hoc test was used for pairwise comparisons. DBP increased body weight gain, feed efficiency, abdominal to thoracic circumference ratio, and body mass index in rats. Serum cholesterol and alkaline phosphatase concentrations decreased with DBP treatment. Serum albumin, glucose, creatinine, and alanine transaminase increased with DBP treatments. Serum lactate dehydrogenase increased in DBP-10 but was not affected by DBP-50. Further low-dose investigations are needed to assess non-monotonic dose responses."
28492604	Pemetrexed	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Serpentine supravenous hyperpigmentation following cisplatin and pemetrexed chemotherapy.	
28031137	Voriconazole	Lupus Erythematosus, Cutaneous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Voriconazole-Induced Subacute Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus in an Adult With Aspergillosis.	A 59-year-old man was treated with voriconazole for chronic invasive aspergillosis and who subsequently developed subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE). The patient presented with a 6-week history of multiple erythematous papulosquamous lesions on his chest, upper and lower extremities, and back (Figure 1). They were nonpruritic and nonpainful. He was afebrile and otherwise well. He had no history of extensive sun exposure prior to the appearance of the eruption. He had been taking voriconazole for about 3 months prior to the onset of lesions. He denied any family history of connective tissue disease.
30068810	Etanercept	Brain Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Primary central nervous system methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis].	We report on a 52-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who developed methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders (MTX-LPD) in the central nervous system (CNS) in the course of immunosuppressive therapy for RA. The patient was admitted because of monoplegia in her left hand. She had been receiving methotrexate (MTX) for her RA for several years and etanercept had also been introduced because of a worsening of the arthritis six months before admission. Brain MRI revealed multiple lesions with enhancement scattered throughout both hemispheres. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography showed abnormal accumulation suggesting malignancy in the right frontal lobe where abnormal enhancement was observed on the MRI. A brain biopsy was performed at the identified site and it confirmed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). We therefore diagnosed her as MTX-LPD. According to previous reports, most MTX-LPD cases tend to show regression after the cessation of MTX. However, our case showed no regression and even needed chemotherapy. The patient had a poorer prognosis than previous cases and died 17 months after the onset. Although it is an uncommon complication, particularly in the CNS, MTX-LPD should be considered as a critical differential diagnosis if a patient receiving MTX develops central nervous system lesions. Immediate medical intervention including brain biopsy is required.
30068810	Etanercept	Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Primary central nervous system methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis].	We report on a 52-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who developed methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders (MTX-LPD) in the central nervous system (CNS) in the course of immunosuppressive therapy for RA. The patient was admitted because of monoplegia in her left hand. She had been receiving methotrexate (MTX) for her RA for several years and etanercept had also been introduced because of a worsening of the arthritis six months before admission. Brain MRI revealed multiple lesions with enhancement scattered throughout both hemispheres. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography showed abnormal accumulation suggesting malignancy in the right frontal lobe where abnormal enhancement was observed on the MRI. A brain biopsy was performed at the identified site and it confirmed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). We therefore diagnosed her as MTX-LPD. According to previous reports, most MTX-LPD cases tend to show regression after the cessation of MTX. However, our case showed no regression and even needed chemotherapy. The patient had a poorer prognosis than previous cases and died 17 months after the onset. Although it is an uncommon complication, particularly in the CNS, MTX-LPD should be considered as a critical differential diagnosis if a patient receiving MTX develops central nervous system lesions. Immediate medical intervention including brain biopsy is required.
30068810	Etanercept	Lymphoproliferative Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Primary central nervous system methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis].	We report on a 52-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who developed methotrexate associated lymphoproliferative disorders (MTX-LPD) in the central nervous system (CNS) in the course of immunosuppressive therapy for RA. The patient was admitted because of monoplegia in her left hand. She had been receiving methotrexate (MTX) for her RA for several years and etanercept had also been introduced because of a worsening of the arthritis six months before admission. Brain MRI revealed multiple lesions with enhancement scattered throughout both hemispheres. (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography showed abnormal accumulation suggesting malignancy in the right frontal lobe where abnormal enhancement was observed on the MRI. A brain biopsy was performed at the identified site and it confirmed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). We therefore diagnosed her as MTX-LPD. According to previous reports, most MTX-LPD cases tend to show regression after the cessation of MTX. However, our case showed no regression and even needed chemotherapy. The patient had a poorer prognosis than previous cases and died 17 months after the onset. Although it is an uncommon complication, particularly in the CNS, MTX-LPD should be considered as a critical differential diagnosis if a patient receiving MTX develops central nervous system lesions. Immediate medical intervention including brain biopsy is required.
29707580	Sucrose	Stress, Psychological	1	0	0	0		Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress Causing Cardiac and Thoracic Spinal Cord Electrophysiological Abnormalities May Be Associated with Increased Cardiac Expression of Serotonin and Growth-Associated Protein-43 in Rats.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to investigate the potential mechanisms by which chronic unpredictable mild stress (CMS) might induce cardiovascular disease. METHODS: Twenty male Sprague-Dawley rats (weighing 180-250 g) were divided into the CMS group (CMS for 3 weeks) and control group (n = 10/group). Sucrose solution consumption, sucrose solution preference rate, and the open field test (horizontal and vertical movements) were used to confirm the establishment of the CMS model. Heart rate was determined in Langendorff-perfused hearts, and field action potential duration (FAPD) was measured in cardiac atrial tissue, cardiac ventricular tissue, and thoracic spinal cord segments 1-5. The expressions of serotonin (5-HT) and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) in cardiac ventricular tissue were analyzed using immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, sucrose solution consumption, sucrose solution preference rate, horizontal movement, and vertical movement were significantly lower in the CMS group (P < 0.01). The CMS group exhibited significant decreases in atrial and ventricular FAPDs (P < 0.05), as well as significant increases in heart rates (P < 0.05) and T1-5 spinal cord FAPD (P < 0.01), as compared with the control group. The expressions of 5-HT and GAP-43 in cardiac ventricular tissue were significantly higher in the CMS group than in controls (P < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: CMS causes cardiac and T1-5 spinal cord electrophysiological abnormalities as well as increased cardiac expression of 5-HT and GAP-43, indicating that CMS could potentially increase the risk of cardiovascular disease.
29632429	Iohexol	Jaundice, Obstructive	1	1	0	0	0.0	Gilbert syndrome combined with prolonged jaundice caused by contrast agent: Case report.	This case highlights a patient with Gilbert syndrome who underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with removal of bile duct stones, who then experienced an unexplained increase in bilirubin, with total bilirubin (TBIL) levels increasing from 159.5 mumol/L to 396.2 mumol/L and to a maximum of 502.8 mumol/L after 9 d. Following the decrease in the TBIL level, enhanced magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was performed to exclude any possible remaining choledocholithiasis. Nevertheless, the serum bilirubin level increased again, with TBIL levels rising from 455.7 mumol/L to 594.8 mumol/L and a maximum level of 660.3 mumol/L with no remaining bile duct stones. A liver biopsy showed severe bile duct cholestasis with no inflammation. Based on the exclusion of other potential causes of hyperbilirubinemia and the fact that both instances of increased bilirubin occurred after ERCP and MRCP, the contrast agents iopromide and gadoterate meglumine were suspected to be the causes of the hyperbilirubinemia. As of the writing of this report, the patient's bilirubin levels have spontaneously returned to baseline levels. In summary, ERCP and MRCP utilizing the contrast agents iopromide and gadoterate meglumine may possibly induce prolonged hyperbilirubinemia.
29632429	Meglumine	Jaundice, Obstructive	1	1	0	0	0.0	Gilbert syndrome combined with prolonged jaundice caused by contrast agent: Case report.	This case highlights a patient with Gilbert syndrome who underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with removal of bile duct stones, who then experienced an unexplained increase in bilirubin, with total bilirubin (TBIL) levels increasing from 159.5 mumol/L to 396.2 mumol/L and to a maximum of 502.8 mumol/L after 9 d. Following the decrease in the TBIL level, enhanced magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was performed to exclude any possible remaining choledocholithiasis. Nevertheless, the serum bilirubin level increased again, with TBIL levels rising from 455.7 mumol/L to 594.8 mumol/L and a maximum level of 660.3 mumol/L with no remaining bile duct stones. A liver biopsy showed severe bile duct cholestasis with no inflammation. Based on the exclusion of other potential causes of hyperbilirubinemia and the fact that both instances of increased bilirubin occurred after ERCP and MRCP, the contrast agents iopromide and gadoterate meglumine were suspected to be the causes of the hyperbilirubinemia. As of the writing of this report, the patient's bilirubin levels have spontaneously returned to baseline levels. In summary, ERCP and MRCP utilizing the contrast agents iopromide and gadoterate meglumine may possibly induce prolonged hyperbilirubinemia.
29470737	Iloprost	Diarrhea	1	1	0	0	0.0	The safety of iloprost in systemic sclerosis in a real-life experience.	Iloprost (ILO) is employed intravenously for the treatment of severe Raynaud phenomenon (RP) and digital ulcers (DU) in systemic sclerosis (SSc). The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the intravenous treatment with ILO in different phases of SSc. Eighty-one consecutive non-selected SSc patients, all on nifedipine, with moderate RP, treated with ILO infusion, were retrospectively evaluated. Patients were sub classified according to the edematous or fibrotic/atrophic cutaneous phase of the disease. ILO was infused with a progressive increase of the dosage up to the achievement of patient's tolerance, 1 day/week. In cases of slower infusion regimen due to adverse events (AE) at the beginning of the administration, patients received a lower dose of the drug (not possible to quantify precisely the final cumulative dosage). 16/81 SSc patients presented digital edema, 5 developed diarrhea, and 9 developed transient hypotension during the infusion at 20 ml/h that ameliorated when the drug was withdrawn. Moreover, 10/16 edematous patients experienced significant and painful digital swelling, unlike patients in the fibrotic group (p < 0.0001); 11/16 patients reported flushing and 7/16 headache, always controlled with dose tapering below 10 ml/h. In the atrophic/fibrotic phase patients (65/81), 10 developed diarrhea and 24 hypotension at infusion rate of 20 ml/h that led to temporary withdrawal of the drug. When ILO was restarted and kept below 10 ml/h, no side effects were experienced. 23/65 patients experienced flushing and 8/65 headache, all controlled with infusion reduction below 10 ml/h. In these patients, adverse events were significantly less frequent than in the edematous group (p = 0.023 and p = 0.008, respectively). Our data suggest that calcium channel blockers should be transitorily stopped while using ILO and that a pre-treatment approach might reduce or control adverse events. In patients with digital edema, ILO infusion should be carefully employed after the evaluation of patient's drug tolerance.
29428922	Valproic Acid	Vitamin D Deficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	Vitamin D Deficiency in Ambulant Children on Carbamazepine or Sodium Valproate Monotherapy.	OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of monotherapy with Carbamazepine (CBZ) and Sodium valproate (VPA) on serum 25-OH Vitamin D levels in children with epilepsy compared to controls. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study. SETTING: Outpatient department of a tertiary-care Pediatric Neurology centre, and a nearby day-care centre and school. STUDY PERIOD: June 2012 to May 2013. PARTICIPANTS: Children with epilepsy aged 2 to 13 years on monotherapy with CBZ (n=28) or VPA (n=28) for at least 6 months; 109 age-matched controls from a nearby day-care centre and school. RESULTS: The median (IQR) values of 25 (OH) vitamin D was 18.0 ng/mL (13.7-27.3), 21.35 ng/mL (16.4 -25.2) and 30.5 ng/mL (19.1-43.7) in CBZ, VPA and control group, respectively (P= 0.008). 60.7% of patients in CBZ group and 35.7 % in VPA group had low 25 (OH) D levels (%20 ng/mL) compared to 27.8% in controls (P=0.001).The serum alkaline phosphatase level was higher in children on carbamazepine therapy (P=0.001) than controls. CONCLUSION: This study identifies significant risk of vitamin D deficiency in ambulant children with epilepsy on monotherapy with CBZ or VPA.
29367168	Estriol	Pelvic Pain	1	0	0	0		Does vaginal estriol make urodynamic changes in women with overactive bladder syndrome and genitourinary syndrome of menopause?	OBJECTIVES: OAB is a common finding in postmenopausal women. Hypoestrogenism is the root cause of many signs and symptoms of Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause (vaginal dryness, atrophy, dyspareunia, urinary disorders, etc.). As such the aim of this study was to evaluate the urodynamic effects of ultralowdose estriol vaginal gel formulation to treat women with Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause and Overactive Bladder Syndrome. STUDY DESIGN: This open-labeled, single center, prospective study involved 37 women with OAB recruited in our Urogynecological Unit between January and July 2016. They received estriol 50 mcg/g vaginal gel, one applicator-dose per day for 3 weeks followed by one dose twice a week for 12 weeks. Objective and subjective parameters were evaluated before and after treatment through the urodynamic examination, Overactive Bladder symptom score and Short Form Health Survey-36 questionnaires. RESULTS: Vaginal atrophy symptoms and signs as well as the overactive bladder subjective symptom parameter improved significantly. Urodynamic evaluation showed significant improvement in first desire to void and maximum cystometric capacity after estriol usage. Patients who had detrusor overactivity did not show any improvement for this parameter after treatment. The voiding function parameters did not significantly change. Short form-36 showed a better quality of life after treatment especially for the emotional role, as well as mental and general health. CONCLUSIONS: A local ultra-low dose concentration of estriol could be effective in women with vaginal atrophy and Overactive Bladder Syndrome for improving both subjective symptoms and urodynamic parameters of storage function not affecting voiding function.
29367168	Estrogens	Pelvic Pain	1	0	0	0		Does vaginal estriol make urodynamic changes in women with overactive bladder syndrome and genitourinary syndrome of menopause?	OBJECTIVES: OAB is a common finding in postmenopausal women. Hypoestrogenism is the root cause of many signs and symptoms of Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause (vaginal dryness, atrophy, dyspareunia, urinary disorders, etc.). As such the aim of this study was to evaluate the urodynamic effects of ultralowdose estriol vaginal gel formulation to treat women with Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause and Overactive Bladder Syndrome. STUDY DESIGN: This open-labeled, single center, prospective study involved 37 women with OAB recruited in our Urogynecological Unit between January and July 2016. They received estriol 50 mcg/g vaginal gel, one applicator-dose per day for 3 weeks followed by one dose twice a week for 12 weeks. Objective and subjective parameters were evaluated before and after treatment through the urodynamic examination, Overactive Bladder symptom score and Short Form Health Survey-36 questionnaires. RESULTS: Vaginal atrophy symptoms and signs as well as the overactive bladder subjective symptom parameter improved significantly. Urodynamic evaluation showed significant improvement in first desire to void and maximum cystometric capacity after estriol usage. Patients who had detrusor overactivity did not show any improvement for this parameter after treatment. The voiding function parameters did not significantly change. Short form-36 showed a better quality of life after treatment especially for the emotional role, as well as mental and general health. CONCLUSIONS: A local ultra-low dose concentration of estriol could be effective in women with vaginal atrophy and Overactive Bladder Syndrome for improving both subjective symptoms and urodynamic parameters of storage function not affecting voiding function.
29266186	Imatinib Mesylate	Hypopigmentation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Long-term mucocutaneous adverse effects of imatinib in Indian chronic myeloid leukemia patients.	BACKGROUND: Short-term mucocutaneous adverse effects are well documented with imatinib. However, studies on long-term adverse effects and in the ethnic population are lacking. OBJECTIVE: To study the long-term mucocutaneous adverse effects of imatinib and factors predicting these adverse effects. METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, consenting adult chronic myeloid leukemia patients on imatinib for more than 250 days were recruited. The details of imatinib treatment were retrieved from hematology clinic records. RESULTS: Four hundred and thirty-eight patients who were on imatinib for a mean duration of 1820 days were recruited. A mean number of 1.42 +/- 0.98 cutaneous adverse effects were seen per patient. Melasma-like pigmentation, periorbital edema, oral lichenoid reaction, cutaneous hypopigmentation, and vesicobullous eruptions were seen in 236 (53.9%), 81 (18.5%), 70 (16%), 42 (9.6%), and 12 (2.7%) patients, respectively. Drug-induced cutaneous eruptions (9.1%) and cutaneous hypopigmentation (9.6%) were seen less frequently. Cutaneous hyperpigmentation was more likely seen in younger patients (P = 0.001) and females (P < 0.001). On multivariate analysis, female gender was a significant risk factor for developing cutaneous hyperpigmentation and periorbital edema. CONCLUSION: Cutaneous hyperpigmentation and periorbital edema are common long-term adverse effects of imatinib in Indian patients. Female gender is a significant risk factor for the development of both these adverse effects.
29266186	Imatinib Mesylate	Skin Diseases, Vesiculobullous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Long-term mucocutaneous adverse effects of imatinib in Indian chronic myeloid leukemia patients.	BACKGROUND: Short-term mucocutaneous adverse effects are well documented with imatinib. However, studies on long-term adverse effects and in the ethnic population are lacking. OBJECTIVE: To study the long-term mucocutaneous adverse effects of imatinib and factors predicting these adverse effects. METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, consenting adult chronic myeloid leukemia patients on imatinib for more than 250 days were recruited. The details of imatinib treatment were retrieved from hematology clinic records. RESULTS: Four hundred and thirty-eight patients who were on imatinib for a mean duration of 1820 days were recruited. A mean number of 1.42 +/- 0.98 cutaneous adverse effects were seen per patient. Melasma-like pigmentation, periorbital edema, oral lichenoid reaction, cutaneous hypopigmentation, and vesicobullous eruptions were seen in 236 (53.9%), 81 (18.5%), 70 (16%), 42 (9.6%), and 12 (2.7%) patients, respectively. Drug-induced cutaneous eruptions (9.1%) and cutaneous hypopigmentation (9.6%) were seen less frequently. Cutaneous hyperpigmentation was more likely seen in younger patients (P = 0.001) and females (P < 0.001). On multivariate analysis, female gender was a significant risk factor for developing cutaneous hyperpigmentation and periorbital edema. CONCLUSION: Cutaneous hyperpigmentation and periorbital edema are common long-term adverse effects of imatinib in Indian patients. Female gender is a significant risk factor for the development of both these adverse effects.
28976720	Infliximab	Acne Vulgaris	1	0	0	0		Infliximab-induced acne and acute localized exanthematous pustulosis: Case report.	
28736926	Testosterone	Hypothyroidism	0	1	0	0		Effects of testosterone enanthate treatment in conjunction with resistance training on thyroid hormones and lipid profile in male Wistar rats.	This study was conducted to determine the effects of 8-week administration of testosterone enanthate (TE) in conjunction with resistance training on thyroid hormones and lipid profiles. Sixty male adult Wistar rats were randomly divided into six groups: C: olive oil, RT: resistance training + olive oil, LD: TE (20 mg/kg), HD: TE (50 mg/kg), RT + LD: RT + TE (20 mg/kg), RT + HD: RT + TE (50 mg/kg). The RT consisted of climbing (5 reps/3 sets) a ladder carrying a load suspended from the tail. At the end, blood specimens were obtained from the orbital sinus and serum concentration of T4, T3, TSH and lipid profiles was determined. The serum concentration of TSH significantly increased in RT + HD group compared to C, and the serum concentration of T4 significantly decreased in LD, HD, RT + LD and RT + HD groups compared to the C and RT groups (p < .05). The concentration of HDL and cholesterol significantly decreased in HD and RT + HD groups compared with C group (p < .05). Both decreased T4 and increased TSH in the RT + HD group likely suggested a primary hypothyroidism as a complication of high-dose administration of testosterone enanthate along with resistance training. Alteration in lipid profile was another complication observed in rats received high doses of testosterone enanthate.
28432299	Glucose	Diabetic Neuropathies	0	0	0	0		Tangluoning, a traditional Chinese medicine, attenuates in vivo and in vitro diabetic peripheral neuropathy through modulation of PERK/Nrf2 pathway.	Prolonged hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress have been demonstrated to play a key role in progression of diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN). PERK/ Nrf2 pathway plays a predominant role in oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress which is associated with cell survival. This study examined the modulation of the PERK/Nrf2 pathway and apoptosis by a traditional Chinese medicine Tangluoning (TLN) in streptozotocin-induced DPN rat models and the effects of serum TLN on the PERK/Nrf2 pathway, apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial membrane potential in Schwann cells cultured in 150 mM glucose. It is found that TLN attenuated oxidative and ER stress and apoptosis through the PERK/Nrf2 pathway by upregulating p-PERK, Nrf2/ARE pathways and downregulating the CHOP-related apoptosis pathways in the experimental DPN models both in vivo and in vitro.
29622719	Ipilimumab	Ileitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe inflammatory ileitis resulting in ileal perforation in association with combination immune checkpoint blockade for metastatic malignant melanoma.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors have become standard of care in metastatic malignant melanoma management. Despite superior effectiveness to chemotherapy, significant immune-related adverse events (irAE) may occur, particularly if used in combination. Gastrointestinal irAEs were reported with different patterns of involvement. Here, we report the case of a patient who had ileal perforation as a complication of terminal ileitis, without colitis, induced by combination immune checkpoint blockade.
29622719	Ipilimumab	Intestinal Perforation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe inflammatory ileitis resulting in ileal perforation in association with combination immune checkpoint blockade for metastatic malignant melanoma.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors have become standard of care in metastatic malignant melanoma management. Despite superior effectiveness to chemotherapy, significant immune-related adverse events (irAE) may occur, particularly if used in combination. Gastrointestinal irAEs were reported with different patterns of involvement. Here, we report the case of a patient who had ileal perforation as a complication of terminal ileitis, without colitis, induced by combination immune checkpoint blockade.
29288483	Nitrofurantoin	Acute Lung Injury	1	1	0	1	0.0	Spontaneous resolution of nitrofurantoin-induced chronic pulmonary toxicity presenting with respiratory failure.	Nitrofurantoin is one of the most common drugs implicated in drug-induced pulmonary toxicities, the manifestations of which range from dose-independent acute self-limiting reactions to chronic dose-dependent pathologies. The severity of these pulmonary adverse effects may range from trivial hypersensitivity reactions to extensive and irreversible lung fibrosis leading to respiratory failure and death. Symptomatic and supportive treatment in addition to discontinuation of the drug usually suffices for the management of mild reactions. Corticosteroids have been traditionally used to relieve the symptoms and hasten the resolution of pulmonary lesions in case of severe toxicities. However conclusive evidence in the form of controlled studies in favor of this routine use is lacking. We report a case of an elderly lady who presented to us in respiratory failure due to nitrofurantoin induced chronic lung disease. The patient's symptoms and blood gas abnormalities resolved spontaneously over the course of 6 months after stopping the drug. Radiological lesions including those suggestive of apparently permanent fibrosis also resolved during this time. Corticosteroids, inhalational or systemic, were not used. Spontaneous normalization of clinico-radiological features in nitrofurantoin induced chronic lung disease presenting with respiratory failure has rarely been reported previously. The related literature is also reviewed.
28497626	Cobalt	Foot Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Allergic contact dermatitis caused by cobalt in leather - clinical cases.	
25529850	Cyclophosphamide	Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis	0	0	0	0		Usual interstitial pneumonia following resolution of cavitated pulmonary masses in a patient with ANCA-associated vasculitis.	A 72-year-old woman with slight pulmonary interstitial reticular markings was initially diagnosed with microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Two years later, cavitated pulmonary masses appeared, and a biopsy specimen revealed granulomas. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) was diagnosed. The masses resolved with treatment. Ten years later, the usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern appeared on chest computed tomography (CT). The diagnosis of lung toxicity from methotrexate (MTX) or cyclophosphamide (CYC) was precluded by the clinical course. Despite treatment with prednisolone (PSL), the UIP progressed. The change of pulmonary pathology from masses to UIP is rare in patients with GPA.
25529850	Methotrexate	Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis	0	0	0	0		Usual interstitial pneumonia following resolution of cavitated pulmonary masses in a patient with ANCA-associated vasculitis.	A 72-year-old woman with slight pulmonary interstitial reticular markings was initially diagnosed with microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Two years later, cavitated pulmonary masses appeared, and a biopsy specimen revealed granulomas. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) was diagnosed. The masses resolved with treatment. Ten years later, the usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern appeared on chest computed tomography (CT). The diagnosis of lung toxicity from methotrexate (MTX) or cyclophosphamide (CYC) was precluded by the clinical course. Despite treatment with prednisolone (PSL), the UIP progressed. The change of pulmonary pathology from masses to UIP is rare in patients with GPA.
30212990	Cefotetan	Pregnancy Complications	1	1	1	1	1.0	Maternal anaphylactic shock in pregnancy: A case report.	RATIONALE: Anaphylaxis is a very rare event in pregnancy, triggering maternal hypotension leading to intrapartum hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy in infant. Furthermore, cesarean sections are performed at a high rate in anaphylactic pregnant women. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 34-year-old pregnant woman presented with maternal anaphylaxis following prophylactic antibiotic injection for cesarean section. Within a few minutes after initiation of intradermal skin test with cefotetan, the pregnant woman developed generalized itchy rash, chest tightness, and dyspnea. DIAGNOSES: Several minutes after the injection of antibiotics, a diffuse urticarial rash was detected over her face and trunk followed by complaints of chest tightness and dyspnea. She was diagnosed with hypotension and hypoxia. Further, fetal heart tones showed bradycardia. A presumptive diagnosis of anaphylactic reaction induced by cefotetan was made for surgical prophylaxis. INTERVENTIONS: The patient was managed for anaphylaxis, via administration of epinephrine, glucocorticoid, and antihistamine. Emergency cesarean section performed under general anesthesia resulted in a favorable perinatal outcome for the fetus. OUTCOMES: Maternal and fetal outcomes were good after prompt treatment for anaphylaxis and emergency cesarean section. LESSONS: This is the first reported case of anaphylaxis following cefotetan administration in pregnancy. Cefotetan, a second-generation cephalosporin, is a commonly prescribed antibiotic used to treat a wide range of bacterial infections. The case demonstrated life-threatening anaphylactic reaction during pregnancy. Even a skin test using antibiotics alone triggered anaphylaxis.
29569087	Travoprost	Retinal Detachment	1	1	1	1	1.0	Reversal of retinal pigment epithelial detachment after cessation of topical travoprost therapy.	PURPOSE: To report the rare incidence of retinal pigment epithelial detachment (RPED) followed by topical travoprost therapy and its subsequent reattachment after cessation of the drug. METHODS: A 60-year-old male presented with gradual loss of vision in both eyes and distorted images in right eye. He gave a history of visiting an ophthalmologist a week ago for a routine eye examination. His previous reports revealed best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of 6/6, N6 in both eyes with raised intraocular pressures. A diagnosis of primary open-angle glaucoma was made and prescribed topical travoprost 0.004% eye drops. This patient's subsequent visit with diagnosis and treatment is mentioned in this case report. RESULTS: On examination, his BCVA was found to be 6/36, N12 and 6/6, N6 in right and left eyes, respectively. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) macular scan revealed RPED involving fovea in the right eye and inferotemporal to fovea in the left eye. Patient was advised to discontinue topical travoprost and started brinzolamide 1% eye drops. Ten-day follow-up visit revealed partially resolved RPED by OCT with 6/9 and 6/6 visual acuity in the right and left eyes, respectively. After 1 month, reversal of RPED was noted in OCT with 6/6 vision in both eyes. CONCLUSION: Hence, clinicians should be aware of this rare incidence of RPED followed by travoprost therapy. First case of RPED following travoprost therapy and complete reattachment upon withdrawal is reported here in this case report.
29306310	Levofloxacin	Pancytopenia	1	0	0	0		[Delayed pancytopenia due to treatment with levofloxacin: A case report].	
29203065	Ipilimumab	Colitis, Ulcerative	1	0	0	0		[Severe ipilimumab-induced ulcerative colitis remitting after infliximab therapy and secondary switching with pembrolizumab].	
29203065	Ipilimumab	Crohn Disease	1	0	0	0		[Severe ipilimumab-induced ulcerative colitis remitting after infliximab therapy and secondary switching with pembrolizumab].	
29189966	Alemtuzumab	Kidney Diseases	1	0	0	0		Management of adverse renal events related to alemtuzumab treatment in multiple sclerosis: a Belgian consensus.	Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis with active disease. Multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with alemtuzumab are at increased risk for autoimmune adverse events (thyroid disorders, immune thrombocytopenia, and renal disease). The use of alemtuzumab has been associated with the development of renal immune-mediated adverse events in 0.3% of patients in clinical trials in MS, which generally occurred within 39 months of the last administration. Both anti-GBM disease and membranous nephropathy have been associated with the use of alemtuzumab. Early detection is necessary to allow for early diagnosis and prevent adverse renal and patient outcomes. Through the implementation of the risk minimization measures, patients can be diagnosed, and treated if needed, early allowing for generally favorable outcomes. This important goal can be reached through health care professional and patient education, careful analysis of the monthly lab tests, and close collaboration between the patient, neurologist, and the nephrologist. This article presents the consensus of Belgian MS specialists and nephrologists on the practicalities of diagnosis, management, and treatment of alemtuzumab-associated renal adverse events based on good clinical practice.
29146041	Aripiprazole	Urinary Retention	1	0	0	0		Urinary retention associated with aripiprazole: Report of a new case and review of the literature.	
29125965	Cannabis	Self Mutilation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Death by self-mutilation after oral cannabis consumption.	Major self-mutilation (amputation, castration, self-inflicted eye injuries) is frequently associated with psychiatric disorders and/or substance abuse. A 35-year-old man presented with behavioral disturbances of sudden onset after oral cannabis consumption and major self-mutilation (attempted amputation of the right arm, self-enucleation of both eyes and impalement) which resulted in death. During the enquiry, four fragments of a substance resembling cannabis resin were seized at the victim's home. Autopsy confirmed that death was related to hemorrhage following the mutilations. Toxicological findings showed cannabinoids in femoral blood (tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) 13.5 ng/mL, 11-hydroxy-tetrahydrocannabinol (11-OH-THC) 4.1 ng/mL, 11-nor-9-carboxy-THC (THC-COOH) 14.7 ng/mL, cannabidiol (CBD) 1.3 ng/mL, cannabinol (CBN) 0.7 ng/mL). Cannabinoid concentrations in hair (1.5 cm brown hair strand/1 segment) were consistent with concentrations measured in chronic users (THC 137 pg/mg, 11-OH-THC 1 pg/mg, CBD 9 pg/mg, CBN 94 pg/mg). Analysis of the fragments seized confirmed that this was cannabis resin with high levels of THC (31-35%). We discuss the implications of oral consumption of cannabis with a very high THC content.
29100610	Azathioprine	Obstetric Labor, Premature	1	0	0	0		Pregnancy outcome following in utero exposure to azathioprine: A French comparative observational study.	AIM OF THE STUDY: To evaluate whether azathioprine exposure during pregnancy increases the risk of birth defects and prematurity. METHOD: Prospective comparative observational study using the French pregnancy database TERAPPEL. To evaluate birth defects, outcomes of pregnancies exposed to azathioprine during the 1st trimester were prospectively assessed and compared to that of pregnancies exposed to another drug used for the same indications. Secondly, the rate of preterm births was compared between fetuses exposed to azathioprine at least during the third trimester and those exposed during the first trimester only. RESULTS: From 447 requests for a risk assessment for women receiving azathioprine during pregnancy, 193 pregnancies meet inclusion criteria. One hundred and twenty-four of them were exposed to azathioprine during the 1st trimester and were compared to that of 124 pregnancies exposed to another drug used for the same indication. Azathioprine use during the first trimester was not statistically associated with the risk of all birth defects ([7.3% vs. 5.4%]; [OR=1.36; 95%CI: 0.44-4.20]) nor with major birth defects (5.2% vs. 1.8% [OR=2.96; 95%CI: 0.56-15.64]). The rate of preterm births (22.5% vs. 27.3%, P=0.579) was similar regardless of the exposure period to azathioprine (at least during the third trimester or during the first trimester only). CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms that first trimester exposure to azathioprine is not associated with an elevated rate of birth defects and that the high rate of preterm births among women exposed to azathioprine is probably explained by the underlying maternal disease.
28933276	Cyclophosphamide	Lacrimal Apparatus Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Cyclophosphamide and/or Anthracyclines Induced Epiphora in Breast Cancer Patients: A Rare Side-effect.	BACKGROUND: Two female breast cancer patients developed epiphora after administration of cyclophosphamide and/or anthracyclines based 2-day chemotherapy regimen. An ophthalmologist was consulted and no apparent cause was found. CASE DESCRIPTION: Patients were managed by ciprofloxacin eye drops. Chemotherapy induced ocular complications are not uncommon, but under reported. Although epiphora is a mild reaction, if severe however, it can interfere with daily activities. Patients having chemotherapy induced ocular toxicity should go for ophthalmic examination to pick up ocular adverse effects of anticancer drugs and treat them at an early stage.
28782476	Capecitabine	Hyperammonemia	1	1	0	1	1.0	A Case of Capecitabine-induced Hyperammonemia in a Patient with Colon Cancer.	BACKGROUND: Hyperammonemia is an infrequent adverse drug reaction (ADR) of chemotherapy. A few cases of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) related hyperammonemia have been reported. However, hyperammonemia induced by capecitabine, an oral prodrug of 5-FU, has not been reported till date. CASE REPORT: A patient with colon cancer was treated with CapeOx (oxaliplatin 200mg, day 1; capecitabine 1.5g bid, days 1-14). On the fifth day of first cycle chemotherapy, she developed hyperammonemia (245 micromol/L) and psychiatric symptoms. The serum 5-FU level (3.2microg/L) was lower than normal. When the patient recovered with drug treatment, capecitabine was restarted at a lower dose (1g bid). Hyperammonemia (98micromol/L) and psychiatric symptoms reappeared after three days. Serum 5-FU remained at a low level (4.6microg/L). This case highlighted the possibility of hyperammonemia induced by capecitabine. Case reports such as these would make physicians more aware of rare ADR and what to be done in such case.
27117289	Levofloxacin	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Case Report of Antitubercular Drugs Induced Exanthematous Reaction Complicated by Acute Onset Levofloxacin Induced Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN).	BACKGROUND: We report a case of 25 years old male patient with antitubercular drugs induced exanthematous reaction and hepatotoxicity that was complicated by levofloxacin induced toxic epidermal necrolysis. The patient was allergic to ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin. Cross reactivity between ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin might be responsible for causing this reaction. CONCLUSION: Issues of cross sensitivity should be kept in mind and the same class of drugs should strictly be avoided to prevent such complications.
30207920	Fingolimod Hydrochloride	Leukopenia	0	0	0	0		Trial of Fingolimod versus Interferon Beta-1a in Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis.	BACKGROUND: Treatment of patients younger than 18 years of age with multiple sclerosis has not been adequately examined in randomized trials. We compared fingolimod with interferon beta-1a in this population. METHODS: In this phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned patients 10 to 17 years of age with relapsing multiple sclerosis in a 1:1 ratio to receive oral fingolimod at a dose of 0.5 mg per day (0.25 mg per day for patients with a body weight of </=40 kg) or intramuscular interferon beta-1a at a dose of 30 mug per week for up to 2 years. The primary end point was the annualized relapse rate. RESULTS: Of a total of 215 patients, 107 were assigned to fingolimod and 108 to interferon beta-1a. The mean age of the patients was 15.3 years. Among all patients, there was a mean of 2.4 relapses during the preceding 2 years. The adjusted annualized relapse rate was 0.12 with fingolimod and 0.67 with interferon beta-1a (absolute difference, 0.55 relapses; relative difference, 82%; P<0.001). The key secondary end point of the annualized rate of new or newly enlarged lesions on T(2)-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was 4.39 with fingolimod and 9.27 with interferon beta-1a (absolute difference, 4.88 lesions; relative difference, 53%; P<0.001). Adverse events, excluding relapses of multiple sclerosis, occurred in 88.8% of patients who received fingolimod and 95.3% of those who received interferon beta-1a. Serious adverse events occurred in 18 patients (16.8%) in the fingolimod group and included seizures (in 4 patients), infection (in 4 patients), and leukopenia (in 2 patients). Serious adverse events occurred in 7 patients (6.5%) in the interferon beta-1a group and included infection (in 2 patients) and supraventricular tachycardia (in 1 patient). CONCLUSIONS: Among pediatric patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis, fingolimod was associated with a lower rate of relapse and less accumulation of lesions on MRI over a 2-year period than interferon beta-1a but was associated with a higher rate of serious adverse events. Longer studies are required to determine the durability and safety of fingolimod in pediatric multiple sclerosis. (Funded by Novartis Pharma; PARADIGMS ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01892722 .).
28257748	Lutetium	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Treatment with (177)Lu-DOTATATE: Past, present and future.	
28257748	Lutetium	Hematologic Diseases	0	0	0	0		Treatment with (177)Lu-DOTATATE: Past, present and future.	
28257748	Lutetium	Kidney Diseases	0	0	0	0		Treatment with (177)Lu-DOTATATE: Past, present and future.	
28257748	Octreotide	Kidney Diseases	0	0	0	0		Treatment with (177)Lu-DOTATATE: Past, present and future.	
27895245	Methanol	Coma	1	0	0	0		Acute hippocampal and chronic diffuse white matter involvement in severe methanol intoxication.	
27194382	Pregabalin	Pregnancy Complications	1	0	0	0		A common medication for neuropsychiatric illnesses may cause common problems in pregnancy.	
30032669	Clarithromycin	Hearing Loss	0	1	0	0		Does Clarithromycin Cause Hearing Loss? A 12-Year Review of Clarithromycin Therapy for Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lymphadenitis in Children.	OBJECTIVE(S): The objective was to describe the characteristics of hearing losses documented in patients treated with clarithromycin alone for nontuberculous mycobacterial NTM lymphadenitis in a pediatric tertiary care center over a 12-year period. METHODS: An institutional review board (IRB) approval was obtained. A database search was performed using the ICD-10 diagnosis codes 31.0, 31.1, and 31.8 between January 2004 and January 2017. A REDCap database was created to record variables. Patients were included if they received clarithromycin alone and had, at the minimum, a baseline audiology assessment, and 1 further evaluation during treatment. Fisher's exact test was used to analyze categorical variables, and Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to analyze continuous variables. RESULTS: A total of 167 patients with cervicofacial NTM were identified. Of them, 42 patients fulfilled inclusion criteria. Three children (7%) developed a hearing loss (HL) between 25 and 63 days after starting treatment. HL was unilateral in 2 children. HL persisted in 1 child following cessation of treatment. However, this patient had Rubinstein Taybi syndrome, limiting our ability to attribute the HL solely to clarithromycin. CONCLUSION: We noted a 7% hearing loss rate in our series. Confounding issues, such as 1 patient with a syndrome potentially contributing to HL, and limitations to this study, including retrospective design and loss to follow-up, temper our ability to conclude that clarithromycin was the sole cause of these HL. However, enough supporting data for a role in clarithromycin causing HL exist that testing should be considered for patients undergoing long-term clarithromycin treatment.
29653592	Amiodarone	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	1	1	0	0	0.0	Amiodarone-induced reversible and irreversible hepatotoxicity: two case reports.	BACKGROUND: Amiodarone is a highly effective treatment for supraventricular and ventricular tachyarrhythmia; however, it could be associated with several serious adverse effects, including liver injury. CASE PRESENTATION: We report the clinical and histological features of two contrasting Japanese patients with amiodarone-induced reversible and irreversible hepatotoxicity. One patient with amiodarone-induced irreversible hepatotoxicity showed liver cirrhosis during treatment with amiodarone and died of hepatic failure; the other patient, who had reversible hepatotoxicity, showed a reversible course of liver function and imaging after discontinuation of amiodarone. CONCLUSIONS: We emphasize the importance of close monitoring of liver enzymes and evaluation of liver computed tomographic imaging as well as liver biopsy during treatment with amiodarone, and discontinuation should be considered when amiodarone-induced hepatotoxicity is suspected.
29622043	Aripiprazole	Sleep Wake Disorders	1	1	1	1	1.0	Aripiprazole-induced sleep-related eating disorder: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Sleep-related eating disorder is characterized by parasomnia with recurrent episodes of nocturnal eating or drinking during the main sleep period. Several drugs, including atypical antipsychotics, induce sleep-related eating disorder. However, aripiprazole has not previously been associated with sleep-related eating disorder. CASE PRESENTATION: A 41-year-old Japanese man visited our clinic complaining of depression. The patient was treated with sertraline, which was titrated up to 100 mg for 4 weeks. A sleep inducer and an anxiolytic were coadministered. His depressive mood slightly improved, but it continued for an additional 4 months. Subsequently, aripiprazole (3 mg) was added as an adjunctive therapy. After 3 weeks, the patient's mother found that the patient woke up and ate food at night. The next morning, the patient was amnesic for this event, felt full, and wondered why the bags of food were empty. This episode lasted for 2 days. The patient gained 5 kg during these 3 weeks. After the aripiprazole dose was reduced to 1.5 mg, the patient's nocturnal eating episodes rapidly and completely disappeared. CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is first report of sleep-related eating disorder induced by aripiprazole, and it indicates that this disorder should be considered a possible side effect of aripiprazole. Although aripiprazole is used mainly in patients with schizophrenia, its recently documented use as an adjunctive therapy in patients with depression might induce hitherto unknown side effects.
29174265	Adenosine	Graft Occlusion, Vascular	1	0	0	0		Sub-acute stent thrombosis secondary to ticagrelor resistance-Myth or reality!!	
28639120	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Gingival Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Duloxetine and gingival bleeding: a case-report and reviews of the French and World PharmacoVigilance Databases and literature.	
28476288	Atorvastatin	Hematologic Diseases	1	0	0	0		Adverse events associated with unblinded, but not with blinded, statin therapy in the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial-Lipid-Lowering Arm (ASCOT-LLA): a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial and its non-randomised non-blind extension phase.	BACKGROUND: In blinded randomised controlled trials, statin therapy has been associated with few adverse events (AEs). By contrast, in observational studies, larger increases in many different AEs have been reported than in blinded trials. METHODS: In the Lipid-Lowering Arm of the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial, patients aged 40-79 years with hypertension, at least three other cardiovascular risk factors, and fasting total cholesterol concentrations of 6.5 mmol/L or lower, and who were not taking a statin or fibrate, had no history of myocardial infarction, and were not being treated for angina were randomly assigned to atorvastatin 10 mg daily or matching placebo in a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled phase. In a subsequent non-randomised non-blind extension phase (initiated because of early termination of the trial because efficacy of atorvastatin was shown), all patients were offered atorvastatin 10 mg daily open label. We classified AEs using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities. We blindly adjudicated all reports of four prespecified AEs of interest-muscle-related, erectile dysfunction, sleep disturbance, and cognitive impairment-and analysed all remaining AEs grouped by system organ class. Rates of AEs are given as percentages per annum. RESULTS: The blinded randomised phase was done between February, 1998, and December, 2002; we included 101 80 patients in this analysis (5101 [50%] in the atorvastatin group and 5079 [50%] in the placebo group), with a median follow-up of 3.3 years (IQR 2.7-3.7). The non-blinded non-randomised phase was done between December, 2002, and June, 2005; we included 9899 patients in this analysis (6409 [65%] atorvastatin users and 3490 [35%] non-users), with a median follow-up of 2.3 years (2.2-2.4). During the blinded phase, muscle-related AEs (298 [2.03% per annum] vs 283 [2.00% per annum]; hazard ratio 1.03 [95% CI 0.88-1.21]; p=0.72) and erectile dysfunction (272 [1.86% per annum] vs 302 [2.14% per annum]; 0.88 [0.75-1.04]; p=0.13) were reported at a similar rate by participants randomly assigned to atorvastatin or placebo. The rate of reports of sleep disturbance was significantly lower among participants assigned atorvastatin than assigned placebo (149 [1.00% per annum] vs 210 [1.46% per annum]; 0.69 [0.56-0.85]; p=0.0005). Too few cases of cognitive impairment were reported for a statistically reliable analysis (31 [0.20% per annum] vs 32 [0.22% per annum]; 0.94 [0.57-1.54]; p=0.81). We observed no significant differences in the rates of all other reported AEs, with the exception of an excess of renal and urinary AEs among patients assigned atorvastatin (481 [1.87%] per annum vs 392 [1.51%] per annum; 1.23 [1.08-1.41]; p=0.002). By contrast, during the non-blinded non-randomised phase, muscle-related AEs were reported at a significantly higher rate by participants taking statins than by those who were not (161 [1.26% per annum] vs 124 [1.00% per annum]; 1.41 [1.10-1.79]; p=0.006). We noted no significant differences between statin users and non-users in the rates of other AEs, with the exception of musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (992 [8.69% per annum] vs 831 [7.45% per annum]; 1.17 [1.06-1.29]; p=0.001) and blood and lymphatic system disorders (114 [0.88% per annum] vs 80 [0.64% per annum]; 1.40 [1.04-1.88]; p=0.03), which were reported more commonly by statin users than by non-users. INTERPRETATION: These analyses illustrate the so-called nocebo effect, with an excess rate of muscle-related AE reports only when patients and their doctors were aware that statin therapy was being used and not when its use was blinded. These results will help assure both physicians and patients that most AEs associated with statins are not causally related to use of the drug and should help counter the adverse effect on public health of exaggerated claims about statin-related side-effects. FUNDING: Pfizer, Servier Research Group, and Leo Laboratories.
28476288	Atorvastatin	Lymphatic Diseases	1	0	0	0		Adverse events associated with unblinded, but not with blinded, statin therapy in the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial-Lipid-Lowering Arm (ASCOT-LLA): a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial and its non-randomised non-blind extension phase.	BACKGROUND: In blinded randomised controlled trials, statin therapy has been associated with few adverse events (AEs). By contrast, in observational studies, larger increases in many different AEs have been reported than in blinded trials. METHODS: In the Lipid-Lowering Arm of the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes Trial, patients aged 40-79 years with hypertension, at least three other cardiovascular risk factors, and fasting total cholesterol concentrations of 6.5 mmol/L or lower, and who were not taking a statin or fibrate, had no history of myocardial infarction, and were not being treated for angina were randomly assigned to atorvastatin 10 mg daily or matching placebo in a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled phase. In a subsequent non-randomised non-blind extension phase (initiated because of early termination of the trial because efficacy of atorvastatin was shown), all patients were offered atorvastatin 10 mg daily open label. We classified AEs using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities. We blindly adjudicated all reports of four prespecified AEs of interest-muscle-related, erectile dysfunction, sleep disturbance, and cognitive impairment-and analysed all remaining AEs grouped by system organ class. Rates of AEs are given as percentages per annum. RESULTS: The blinded randomised phase was done between February, 1998, and December, 2002; we included 101 80 patients in this analysis (5101 [50%] in the atorvastatin group and 5079 [50%] in the placebo group), with a median follow-up of 3.3 years (IQR 2.7-3.7). The non-blinded non-randomised phase was done between December, 2002, and June, 2005; we included 9899 patients in this analysis (6409 [65%] atorvastatin users and 3490 [35%] non-users), with a median follow-up of 2.3 years (2.2-2.4). During the blinded phase, muscle-related AEs (298 [2.03% per annum] vs 283 [2.00% per annum]; hazard ratio 1.03 [95% CI 0.88-1.21]; p=0.72) and erectile dysfunction (272 [1.86% per annum] vs 302 [2.14% per annum]; 0.88 [0.75-1.04]; p=0.13) were reported at a similar rate by participants randomly assigned to atorvastatin or placebo. The rate of reports of sleep disturbance was significantly lower among participants assigned atorvastatin than assigned placebo (149 [1.00% per annum] vs 210 [1.46% per annum]; 0.69 [0.56-0.85]; p=0.0005). Too few cases of cognitive impairment were reported for a statistically reliable analysis (31 [0.20% per annum] vs 32 [0.22% per annum]; 0.94 [0.57-1.54]; p=0.81). We observed no significant differences in the rates of all other reported AEs, with the exception of an excess of renal and urinary AEs among patients assigned atorvastatin (481 [1.87%] per annum vs 392 [1.51%] per annum; 1.23 [1.08-1.41]; p=0.002). By contrast, during the non-blinded non-randomised phase, muscle-related AEs were reported at a significantly higher rate by participants taking statins than by those who were not (161 [1.26% per annum] vs 124 [1.00% per annum]; 1.41 [1.10-1.79]; p=0.006). We noted no significant differences between statin users and non-users in the rates of other AEs, with the exception of musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (992 [8.69% per annum] vs 831 [7.45% per annum]; 1.17 [1.06-1.29]; p=0.001) and blood and lymphatic system disorders (114 [0.88% per annum] vs 80 [0.64% per annum]; 1.40 [1.04-1.88]; p=0.03), which were reported more commonly by statin users than by non-users. INTERPRETATION: These analyses illustrate the so-called nocebo effect, with an excess rate of muscle-related AE reports only when patients and their doctors were aware that statin therapy was being used and not when its use was blinded. These results will help assure both physicians and patients that most AEs associated with statins are not causally related to use of the drug and should help counter the adverse effect on public health of exaggerated claims about statin-related side-effects. FUNDING: Pfizer, Servier Research Group, and Leo Laboratories.
28318833	Atorvastatin	Blepharoptosis	0	1	0	0		Bibliometric analysis of the scientific production as regards statin use for ophthalmological symptoms of myasthenia gravis.	INTRODUCTION: The first symptoms of myasthenia gravis (MG) usually involve weakness of the ocular muscles, making it relevant that ophthalmologists have updated information on studies as regards its relationship with the consumption of drugs, such as statins. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A bibliometric analysis was performed using the Scopus database and by a search strategy in the selection of documents containing descriptors related to statins in the <<Title>> (<<TI>>) field and the descriptors <<ophthalm *', <<myast *', <<visual *' in other fields of the document (period 1986-2015). RESULTS: The results showed that, while the number of scientific publications on ocular effects of statins has grown lineally (n=838; y=2.267x-4507.1; r=0.7221; time of duplication: 4.66 years, and rate of annual growth: 50.06%), the specific publications about MG have experienced an exponential growth (n=38; y=2E-262e(0.3001x); r=0.3892; time of duplication: 2.95 years, and rate of annual growth: 46.25%) without reaching the saturation postulated in Price theory of the expansion of the scientific literature. The majority of publications relating to MG are reports of cases linked to a worsening of the MG symptoms, and simvastatin and atorvastatin are the agents mentioned in most of the publications. CONCLUSIONS: These results should enable ophthalmologists to expand their knowledge concerning the evolution of studies on statins and MG, pointing out the relevance of such causal relationships.
28318833	Atorvastatin	Diplopia	0	1	0	0		Bibliometric analysis of the scientific production as regards statin use for ophthalmological symptoms of myasthenia gravis.	INTRODUCTION: The first symptoms of myasthenia gravis (MG) usually involve weakness of the ocular muscles, making it relevant that ophthalmologists have updated information on studies as regards its relationship with the consumption of drugs, such as statins. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A bibliometric analysis was performed using the Scopus database and by a search strategy in the selection of documents containing descriptors related to statins in the <<Title>> (<<TI>>) field and the descriptors <<ophthalm *', <<myast *', <<visual *' in other fields of the document (period 1986-2015). RESULTS: The results showed that, while the number of scientific publications on ocular effects of statins has grown lineally (n=838; y=2.267x-4507.1; r=0.7221; time of duplication: 4.66 years, and rate of annual growth: 50.06%), the specific publications about MG have experienced an exponential growth (n=38; y=2E-262e(0.3001x); r=0.3892; time of duplication: 2.95 years, and rate of annual growth: 46.25%) without reaching the saturation postulated in Price theory of the expansion of the scientific literature. The majority of publications relating to MG are reports of cases linked to a worsening of the MG symptoms, and simvastatin and atorvastatin are the agents mentioned in most of the publications. CONCLUSIONS: These results should enable ophthalmologists to expand their knowledge concerning the evolution of studies on statins and MG, pointing out the relevance of such causal relationships.
28318833	Simvastatin	Blepharoptosis	0	1	0	0		Bibliometric analysis of the scientific production as regards statin use for ophthalmological symptoms of myasthenia gravis.	INTRODUCTION: The first symptoms of myasthenia gravis (MG) usually involve weakness of the ocular muscles, making it relevant that ophthalmologists have updated information on studies as regards its relationship with the consumption of drugs, such as statins. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A bibliometric analysis was performed using the Scopus database and by a search strategy in the selection of documents containing descriptors related to statins in the <<Title>> (<<TI>>) field and the descriptors <<ophthalm *', <<myast *', <<visual *' in other fields of the document (period 1986-2015). RESULTS: The results showed that, while the number of scientific publications on ocular effects of statins has grown lineally (n=838; y=2.267x-4507.1; r=0.7221; time of duplication: 4.66 years, and rate of annual growth: 50.06%), the specific publications about MG have experienced an exponential growth (n=38; y=2E-262e(0.3001x); r=0.3892; time of duplication: 2.95 years, and rate of annual growth: 46.25%) without reaching the saturation postulated in Price theory of the expansion of the scientific literature. The majority of publications relating to MG are reports of cases linked to a worsening of the MG symptoms, and simvastatin and atorvastatin are the agents mentioned in most of the publications. CONCLUSIONS: These results should enable ophthalmologists to expand their knowledge concerning the evolution of studies on statins and MG, pointing out the relevance of such causal relationships.
26733356	Somatostatin	Adrenal Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Pasireotide induced adrenal insufficiency.	
29999439	Nitrogen	Barotrauma	1	0	0	0		Barotrauma after liquid nitrogen ingestion: a case report and literature review.	A 25-year-old man developed a gastric perforation after ingesting a homemade drink containing liquid nitrogen. Surgical repair had to be postponed to seek consultations with experts because the available practitioners in this case, including emergency physicians, surgeons, and anesthesiologists, had little experience and knowledge about the source of the patient's pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema. The patient ultimately underwent exploratory laparotomy with general anesthesia, considering that delaying the operation would lead to a longer duration of bacterial peritonitis and delay the standard treatment of postoperative systemic infectious complications. Our literature review revealed that barotrauma is the unique injury mechanism underlying liquid nitrogen ingestion. Injuries to the airway and esophagus are rare.
29999439	Nitrogen	Stomach Rupture	1	0	0	0		Barotrauma after liquid nitrogen ingestion: a case report and literature review.	A 25-year-old man developed a gastric perforation after ingesting a homemade drink containing liquid nitrogen. Surgical repair had to be postponed to seek consultations with experts because the available practitioners in this case, including emergency physicians, surgeons, and anesthesiologists, had little experience and knowledge about the source of the patient's pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema. The patient ultimately underwent exploratory laparotomy with general anesthesia, considering that delaying the operation would lead to a longer duration of bacterial peritonitis and delay the standard treatment of postoperative systemic infectious complications. Our literature review revealed that barotrauma is the unique injury mechanism underlying liquid nitrogen ingestion. Injuries to the airway and esophagus are rare.
29924183	Iohexol	Pneumonia, Aspiration	0	1	0	0		Study on the Correlation between Barium Radiography and Pulmonary Infection rate in the Evaluation of Swallowing Function.	OBJECTIVES: To compare the results respectively obtained from the utilization of 60% barium sulfate suspension and Iohexol as contrast agents for videofluoroscopic swallowing studies and the relationship between the clinical application of the two kinds of contrast agents and the incidence of pneumonia. METHODS: Sixty cases of stroke patients with dysphagia were selected in rehabilitation department of our hospital, and the gender, age, position of the disease, and stroke nature between groups had no significant difference. Among which, 30 patients who were administered 350 mgI/ml Iohexol, and the other 30 patients with 60% barium sulfate suspension as contrast agent. We performed videofluoroscopic swallowing studies with barium 60% versus Iohexol within 1 week after admission and 2 weeks after admission. RESULTS: After 2 weeks in hospital, the aspiration pneumonia incidence of two groups was statistically significant (p<0.05), the pneumonia incidence of Iohexol group was lower than barium sulfate group which might have a impossble relevance with barium aspiration. CONCLUSIONS: During the videofluoroscopic swallowing study of dysphagia after stroke, barium sulfate can enhance the pneumonia incidence, and Iohexol can be widely applied in videofluoroscopic swallowing study.
29693142	Chorionic Gonadotropin	Polycystic Ovary Syndrome	1	0	0	0		MicroRNA-33b-5p is overexpressed and inhibits GLUT4 by targeting HMGA2 in polycystic ovarian syndrome: An in vivo and in vitro study.	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine and metabolic disease, but its pathogenesis remains largely unknown. The present study explored the role of microRNA‑33b‑5p (miR‑33b‑5p) in PCOS pathogenesis, with a particular focus on its role in regulating glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4). A rat model of PCOS was developed by injecting female SD rats with insulin and HCG. miR‑33b‑5p, GLUT4, sterol regulatory element‑binding protein 1 (SREBF1), and high mobility group A2 (HMGA2) expression in rat ovarian tissues was examined by qRT‑PCR and immunohistochemistry. The effect of a high dose of either glucose or insulin on miR‑33b‑5p, GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 expression was also examined in cultured adipocytes by qRT‑PCR and western blotting. Additionally, the luciferase reporter assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) were used to explore the role of miR‑33b‑5p in regulating HMGA2, SREBF‑1 and/or GLUT4. Elevated levels of miR‑33b‑5p expression were detected in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats, and those levels were negatively correlated with those of GLUT4, HMGA2 and SREBF1 expression (P<0.05). Immunohistochemistry studies revealed that GLUT4, SREBF1, and HMGA2 expression levels in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats were significantly lower than those in other groups of rats. In cultured adipocytes, excess extracellular glucose or insulin increased miR‑33b‑5p expression but reduced GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 expression, whereas the levels of GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 were elevated by inhibition of miR‑33b‑5. HMGA2 could directly bind to the 5'‑promoter region of GLUT4 and promote its expression, and could also promote SREBF1 expression. Moreover, SREBF1 could also directly bind to the 5'‑promoter region of GLUT4 and promote its expression. Our findings revealed that miR‑33b‑5p was overexpressed in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats, and thus may play an important role in the development of insulin resistance in PCOS patients. miR‑33b‑5p can inhibit GLUT4 production by targeting HMGA2, and in addition, HMGA2 and SREBF1 are important molecules involved in modulating GLUT4 expression.
29693142	Insulin	Polycystic Ovary Syndrome	1	0	0	0		MicroRNA-33b-5p is overexpressed and inhibits GLUT4 by targeting HMGA2 in polycystic ovarian syndrome: An in vivo and in vitro study.	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine and metabolic disease, but its pathogenesis remains largely unknown. The present study explored the role of microRNA‑33b‑5p (miR‑33b‑5p) in PCOS pathogenesis, with a particular focus on its role in regulating glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4). A rat model of PCOS was developed by injecting female SD rats with insulin and HCG. miR‑33b‑5p, GLUT4, sterol regulatory element‑binding protein 1 (SREBF1), and high mobility group A2 (HMGA2) expression in rat ovarian tissues was examined by qRT‑PCR and immunohistochemistry. The effect of a high dose of either glucose or insulin on miR‑33b‑5p, GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 expression was also examined in cultured adipocytes by qRT‑PCR and western blotting. Additionally, the luciferase reporter assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) were used to explore the role of miR‑33b‑5p in regulating HMGA2, SREBF‑1 and/or GLUT4. Elevated levels of miR‑33b‑5p expression were detected in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats, and those levels were negatively correlated with those of GLUT4, HMGA2 and SREBF1 expression (P<0.05). Immunohistochemistry studies revealed that GLUT4, SREBF1, and HMGA2 expression levels in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats were significantly lower than those in other groups of rats. In cultured adipocytes, excess extracellular glucose or insulin increased miR‑33b‑5p expression but reduced GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 expression, whereas the levels of GLUT4, SREBF1 and HMGA2 were elevated by inhibition of miR‑33b‑5. HMGA2 could directly bind to the 5'‑promoter region of GLUT4 and promote its expression, and could also promote SREBF1 expression. Moreover, SREBF1 could also directly bind to the 5'‑promoter region of GLUT4 and promote its expression. Our findings revealed that miR‑33b‑5p was overexpressed in the ovarian tissues of insulin resistant PCOS rats, and thus may play an important role in the development of insulin resistance in PCOS patients. miR‑33b‑5p can inhibit GLUT4 production by targeting HMGA2, and in addition, HMGA2 and SREBF1 are important molecules involved in modulating GLUT4 expression.
29592993	Mycophenolic Acid	Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome	1	1	0	1	1.0	Systemic inflammatory response in a liver transplant recipient: a potential side effect of mycophenolate mofetil.	Mycophenolate mofetil is a commonly used immunosuppressive medication in the postliver transplant setting where gastrointestinal side effects tend to predominate. However, in more recent times, emerging and rare side effects are being reported in the literature. We present a case of a patient who had a significant inflammatory response and associated marked weight loss with the uptitration in dose of mycophenolate mofetil. Extensive investigations were performed to exclude other infective, inflammatory or malignant aetiologies for these symptoms, however no other cause was identified. The patient had the medication ceased and subsequently had a dramatic improvement in his inflammatory markers and regained the weight lost while on the medication.
29592972	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Confusion	1	1	0	0	0.0	Drug-induced movement disorder and confusion associated with duloxetine.	A 60-year-old woman with major depressive disorder, developed high blood pressure, confusion and dyskinesias of face, neck and jaw, following an increase in her dose of duloxetine. Routine blood tests including toxic, infective and metabolic workup were unremarkable. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis and electroencephalogram were also normal. MRI brain showed bilaterally symmetrical diffusion-restricted areas in deep cerebral white matter. Duloxetine was held on suspicion of drug adverse effect. She had complete resolution of symptoms within 48 hours and resolution of MRI brain changes over 6 weeks. Serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors such as duloxetine may have the potential to cause drug-induced movement disorders, confusion and high blood pressure and should be used cautiously especially in elderly.
29404875	Dabigatran	Agranulocytosis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Acute agranulocytosis after oral administration of dabigatran: a rare case report and a short review of literature.	This case report describes agranulocytosis immediately after oral administration of dabigatran in a 68 years old man with atrial fibrillation (AF). Dabigatran is an oral, reversible and competitive thrombin inhibitor that has shown promising results. In patients with atrial fibrillation of RE-LY study (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulant Therapy), dabigatran administered at a dose of 150 mg, as compared with warfarin, was associated with lower rates of stroke and systemic embolism but similar rates of major hemorrhage. Dabigatran is administered as a prodrug and the peak of the plasma concentrations occurs within 2 h of ingestion. Agranulocytosis is characterized by a severe decrease or lack of circulating granulocytes. This rare event can be found among people taking dabigratan, especially for people who are female, over the age of 60, who took the drug for < 1 month. Agranulocytosis and aplastic anaemia are rare but serious conditions known to be caused by numerous drugs. Most of what is known or suspected about the aetiology is based on case reports, with only a few formal epidemiological studies that provide quantitative estimates of risk. The patient's white blood cell count increased abruptly after discontinuation of the drug, suggesting an immune response caused by dabigatran. Although anticoagulant drugs are commonly used to treat atrial fibrillation, attention should be paid to this aspect and possible drug interactions.
28942465	Hydrocortisone	Depression	0	0	0	0		The association between maternal cortisol and depression during pregnancy, a systematic review.	Timing of cortisol collection during pregnancy is an important factor within studies reporting on the association between maternal cortisol and depression during pregnancy. Our objective was to further examine the extent to which reported associations differed across studies according to time of maternal cortisol collection during pregnancy. On December 15, 2016, records were identified using PubMed/MEDLINE (National Library of Medicine), EMBASE (Elsevier; 1974-), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL, EBSCO), PsycINFO (EBSCO), and Web of Science Core Collection (Thomson Reuters). Unique abstracts were screened using the following inclusion criteria: (1) maternal cortisol assessed during pregnancy; (2) antepartum depression assessed during pregnancy using a screening instrument; (3) reports on the association between maternal cortisol and antepartum depression; (4) provides information on timing of cortisol assessment during pregnancy, including time of day and gestation; and (5) not a review article or a case study. One thousand three hundred seventy-five records were identified, resulting in 826 unique abstracts. Twenty-nine articles met all inclusion criteria. On balance, most studies reported no association between maternal cortisol and antepartum depression (N = 17), and saliva and blood were the most common reported matrices. Morning and second and third trimesters were the most common times of collection during pregnancy. Among studies reporting an association (N = 12), second-trimester and third-trimester cortisol assessments more consistently reported an association and elevated cortisol concentrations were observed in expected recovery periods. Our review adds to the existing literature on the topic, highlighting gaps and strategic next steps.
28872200	Propolis	Erythema Multiforme	1	0	1	1	1.0	A first case of erythema multiforme-like contact dermatitis caused by propolis.	
28244485	Bortezomib	Hearing Loss, Sensorineural	1	0	0	0		Sensorineural deafness: An uncommon irreversible adverse effect of bortezomib.	
28179462	Alemtuzumab	Demyelinating Diseases	1	0	0	0		Tumefactive demyelination following treatment for relapsing multiple sclerosis with alemtuzumab.	
26397725	Aripiprazole	Neutropenia	1	0	0	0		Aripiprazole-Induced Transient Morning Pseudoneutropenia in an 11-Year-Old Male.	
26397172	Aripiprazole	Sialorrhea	1	0	0	0		Aripiprazole-Induced Sialorrhea Responsive to Diphenhydramine Treatment.	
26218973	Codeine	Pseudotumor Cerebri	1	0	0	0		Possible Causal Link Between Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension and the Misuse of Codeine-Based Products.	
29169272	Estrogens	Phyllodes Tumor	1	1	1	1	1.0	A Case of Benign Phyllodes Tumor in a Transgender Woman Receiving Cross-Sex Hormones.	Phyllodes tumor is a relatively uncommon fibroepithelial neoplasm of the breast characterized by proliferation of both stromal and epithelial elements. Benign phyllodes tumors are distinguished from fibroadenomas by their prominent leaf-like architecture and exaggerated intracanalicular stromal growth pattern. Typically, these lesions affect older natal females; however, we present what we believe is the first reported case of benign phyllodes tumor in a hormonally treated transgender woman.
29122213	Ranibizumab	Kidney Diseases	1	0	0	0		Renal damage associated to intravitreal administration of ranibizumab.	
28716880	Amlodipine	Trigeminal Neuralgia	1	0	0	0		Teaching NeuroImages: Amlodipine-responsive trigeminal neuralgia: An alibi for vascular compression theory.	
28612436	Budesonide	Edema	1	0	0	0		A contact allergic reaction to budesonide mimicking immediate-type allergy.	
28532287	Oxytocin	Puerperal Infection	1	0	0	0		Maternal body mass index and oxytocin exposure in nulliparous women: is there an interaction associated with maternal and neonatal morbidities?	OBJECTIVE: Increasing body mass index (BMI) and administered doses of oxytocin are related to maternal and neonatal morbidities. We evaluated the effect of oxytocin dosage, BMI, and their interaction on select perinatal outcomes. STUDY DESIGN: We retrospectively studied nulliparas with singletons >/=36 weeks' gestation who received oxytocin and reached the second stage of labor. Oxytocin dosage was defined by the oxytocin product ([maximum oxytocin dose] x [duration of oxytocin infusion]/100 (milliunits)). Outcomes included cesarean, postpartum hemorrhage, puerperal infection, and a composite of neonatal morbidities. Logistic regression produced odds ratios (OR) for BMI and oxytocin product. The final model included a BMI-oxytocin product interaction term. RESULTS: One thousand two hundred and four women met enrollment criteria. Increasing BMI was associated with longer duration from first exam to delivery and higher rates of cesarean. Oxytocin dosage increased linearly with BMI (p < .001). There were increasing odds of all four outcomes as both BMI and oxytocin dosage increased (except cesarean with oxytocin). However, there was no significant interaction between BMI and oxytocin for any outcome. CONCLUSIONS: BMI and oxytocin dosage are associated with select maternal and neonatal outcomes. However, the lack of interaction between BMI and oxytocin product suggests that the higher administered dose of oxytocin associated with increasing BMI does not synergistically potentiate maternal and neonatal morbidities.
27003321	Epoprostenol	Dyspnea	0	0	0	0		Rapid Inpatient Titration of Intravenous Treprostinil for Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension: Safe and Tolerable.	There is no standard protocol for intravenous treprostinil dose escalation. In most cases, slow up-titration is performed in the outpatient setting. However, rapid up-titration in an inpatient setting is an alternative that provides opportunity for aggressive treatment of common side effects experienced during dose escalation. In this study, we describe our experience with inpatient rapid up-titration of intravenous treprostinil. This was a single-center, retrospective study in which we reviewed the data of subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension treated at our center who underwent inpatient rapid up-titration of intravenous treprostinil. Our treprostinil dose escalation protocol included initiation at 2 ng.kg.min with subsequent up-titration by 1 ng.kg.min every 6 to 8 hours as tolerated by side effects. A total of 16 subjects were identified. Thirteen subjects were treprostinil naive (naive group), and 3 subjects were receiving subcutaneous treprostinil but were hospitalized for further intravenous up-titration of treprostinil dose (nonnaive group). In the naive group, the median maximum dose achieved was 20 ng.kg.min with an interquartile range (IQR) of 20-23 ng.kg.min. The median up-titration interval was 6 days (IQR: 4-9). In the nonnaive group, the median maximum dose achieved was 20 ng.kg.min (range: 17-30). The median up-titration interval was 8.5 days (range: 1.5-11). Overall, the median maximum dose achieved was 20 ng.kg.min (IQR: 20-23.5), and the median up-titration interval was 6 days (IQR: 4.6-9.25), with no reported significant adverse hemodynamic events. In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, rapid inpatient titration of intravenous treprostinil is safe and tolerable.
30235756	Oseltamivir	Digestive System Diseases	1	1	0	1	1.0	Case report on alimentary tract hemorrhage and liver injury after therapy with oseltamivir: A case report.	RATIONALE: Oseltamivir-induced alimentary tract hemorrhage and liver injury are rarely reported in children and adult individuals. In this study, we described the clinical features and outcomes of oseltamivir-induced alimentary tract hemorrhage and liver injury in a child. PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we present a case of a 6-year-old Asian boy with hematemesis and elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (80 U/L) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (69 U/L) levels on day 2 of oseltamivir administration. The presence of alimentary tract hemorrhage and liver injury was diagnosed. The ALT level reached 1931.3 U/L, accompanied by an increase in total bilirubin (TBIL) to 53.3 mumol/L on day 15 after oseltamivir administration. Additional tests were performed to determine the presence of viruses that can cause hepatitis and autoantibodies, and the results from these tests were all negative. DIAGNOSIS: Drug-induced liver injury was considered. INTERVENTIONS: This patient was treated with compound glycyrrhizin and reduced glutathione and glucocorticoid. OUTCOMES: The liver enzymes recovered within 6 weeks without any symptoms of liver-related diseases after treatment with glucocorticoid. This treatment therefore helps reduce ALT and TBIL levels and protects the liver from further injury. LESSONS: Oral oseltamivir is widely used to treat influenza and the adverse effects of this drug were mostly mild. However, clinicians should always be alert for oseltamivir-induced alimentary tract hemorrhage and liver injury when prescribing oseltamivir for children.
30200142	Capecitabine	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Comparison of apatinib and capecitabine (Xeloda) with capecitabine (Xeloda) in advanced triple-negative breast cancer as third-line therapy: A retrospective study.	The treatment of advanced triple-negative breast cancer, which failed in first-line or second-line therapy, is a significant challenge. We conducted this retrospective study to explore the efficacy and safety of apatinib and capecitabine as the third-line treatment for advanced triple-negative breast cancer.This retrospective study involved 44 advanced triple-negative breast cancer patients who failed in first-line or second-line therapy in Tangshan People's Hospital from January 2016 to February 2017. Twenty-two patients received apatinib and capecitabine, while 22 patients were treated with capecitabine monotherapy as third-line therapy. The progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and adverse events were compared between 2 groups.The apatinib and capecitabine group exhibited a higher PFS than capecitabine group (P = .001). Meanwhile, ORR and DCR in apatinib and capecitabine group were better than in capecitabine group (P = .042; .016). The 2 groups showed no significant difference in adverse events except degree I-II bleeding (P = .021). Both the apatinib and capecitabine and the capecitabine regimens revealed good tolerability.The apatinib and capecitabine regimen can achieve a better efficacy and similar serious adverse events compared with capecitabine regimen as the third-line treatment for advanced triple-negative breast cancer.
30184451	Rituximab	Skin Diseases	0	0	0	0		Rituximab plus Lenalidomide in Advanced Untreated Follicular Lymphoma.	BACKGROUND: Rituximab plus chemotherapy has been shown to be effective in patients with advanced-stage, previously untreated follicular lymphoma; nevertheless, most patients will have a relapse. Combination immunotherapy with lenalidomide and rituximab is an immunomodulatory regimen that has shown promising activity in patients with indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. METHODS: We conducted this multicenter, international, phase 3 superiority trial to evaluate rituximab plus lenalidomide, as compared with rituximab plus chemotherapy, in patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma. Patients were randomly assigned to receive one of the two regimens, followed by maintenance monotherapy with rituximab. Treatment with rituximab plus lenalidomide consisted of 18 cycles of the two drugs, followed by rituximab maintenance therapy every 8 weeks for 12 cycles (six additional doses). Treatment with rituximab plus chemotherapy consisted of the investigator's choice of one of three rituximab-based regimens, followed by maintenance monotherapy with rituximab every 8 weeks for 12 cycles. The primary end points were complete response (confirmed or unconfirmed) at 120 weeks and progression-free survival. RESULTS: A total of 1030 patients were randomly assigned to receive rituximab plus lenalidomide (513 patients) or rituximab plus chemotherapy (517 patients). The rate of confirmed or unconfirmed complete response at 120 weeks was similar in the two groups: 48% (95% confidence interval [CI], 44 to 53) in the rituximab-lenalidomide group and 53% (95% CI, 49 to 57) in the rituximab-chemotherapy group (P=0.13). The interim 3-year rate of progression-free survival was 77% (95% CI, 72 to 80) and 78% (95% CI, 74 to 82), respectively. A higher percentage of patients in the rituximab-chemotherapy group had grade 3 or 4 neutropenia (32% vs. 50%) and febrile neutropenia of any grade (2% vs. 7%), and a higher percentage of patients in the rituximab-lenalidomide group had grade 3 or 4 cutaneous reactions (7% vs. 1%). CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with previously untreated follicular lymphoma, efficacy results were similar with rituximab plus lenalidomide and rituximab plus chemotherapy (with both regimens followed by rituximab maintenance therapy). The safety profile differed in the two groups. (Funded by Celgene; RELEVANCE ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT01476787 and NCT01650701 , and EudraCT number, 2011-002792-42 .).
29925326	Ammonia	Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage	1	1	0	1	0.0	Submucosal hematoma: a new distinctive sign during emergency upper digestive endoscopy for ammonia ingestion.	BACKGROUND: Submucosal hematoma has never been associated with caustic injuries. Long-term follow-up of patients who ingested ammonia is not well known and ammonia ingestion is rare. METHODS: In a Single-center observational study, prospective data were collected from 2009 to 2013, in patients over the age of 14 years old referred for ammonia ingestion. The emergency and follow-up endoscopic data and the outcome were reported. RESULTS: Ammonia ingestion occurred in 43 patients. Submucosal hematoma of the gastric wall was a distinctive endoscopic sign observed in 15 (34.8%) cases. Oropharyngeal lesions were present in 30 (69.8%) patients, which was associated with ingestion with suicidal intent in 18 cases. Mild and severe endoscopic lesions (grade IIB to IIIB) were found in 16 (37.2%) cases with 10 (23.3%) cases presenting submucosal hematoma at initial endoscopy. A complete spontaneous gastric healing was frequently observed in 36 (83.7%) cases. In 11 cases with submucosal hematoma, a favourable outcome was observed with a medical treatment, however 6 of these patients had severe endoscopic lesions initially. CONCLUSIONS: Submucosal hematoma of the gastric wall is an endoscopic sign occurring frequently in ammonia ingestion. Submucosal hematoma should be distinguished from necrosis in order to avoid false misclassification in favour of more severe lesions, which would lead to an abusive surgery.
29925326	Ammonium Hydroxide	Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage	1	1	0	1	0.0	Submucosal hematoma: a new distinctive sign during emergency upper digestive endoscopy for ammonia ingestion.	BACKGROUND: Submucosal hematoma has never been associated with caustic injuries. Long-term follow-up of patients who ingested ammonia is not well known and ammonia ingestion is rare. METHODS: In a Single-center observational study, prospective data were collected from 2009 to 2013, in patients over the age of 14 years old referred for ammonia ingestion. The emergency and follow-up endoscopic data and the outcome were reported. RESULTS: Ammonia ingestion occurred in 43 patients. Submucosal hematoma of the gastric wall was a distinctive endoscopic sign observed in 15 (34.8%) cases. Oropharyngeal lesions were present in 30 (69.8%) patients, which was associated with ingestion with suicidal intent in 18 cases. Mild and severe endoscopic lesions (grade IIB to IIIB) were found in 16 (37.2%) cases with 10 (23.3%) cases presenting submucosal hematoma at initial endoscopy. A complete spontaneous gastric healing was frequently observed in 36 (83.7%) cases. In 11 cases with submucosal hematoma, a favourable outcome was observed with a medical treatment, however 6 of these patients had severe endoscopic lesions initially. CONCLUSIONS: Submucosal hematoma of the gastric wall is an endoscopic sign occurring frequently in ammonia ingestion. Submucosal hematoma should be distinguished from necrosis in order to avoid false misclassification in favour of more severe lesions, which would lead to an abusive surgery.
29778098	Hydrochlorothiazide	Hearing Loss	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hydrochlorothiazide and risk of hearing disorder: a case series.	"BACKGROUND: Hydrochlorothiazide is not known to cause hearing disorder. The Eritrean Pharmacovigilance Centre, however, has received cases of hearing disorder, including irreversible deafness, associated with hydrochlorothiazide. The aim of this study is, therefore, to assess the causal relationship between hydrochlorothiazide and hearing disorder. METHODS: Data was retrieved from the WHO global adverse drug reaction database, VigiBase. A search on VigiBase was made on August 6, 2017 using ""hydrochlorothiazide"" as drug substance, and ""ototoxicity"", ""decreased hearing"", and ""vestibular disorder"" as reaction terms. Cases were retrieved using VigiLyze and exported to an Excel spreadsheet for descriptive analysis. Causality was assessed using Austin Bradford-Hill criteria and labeledness of the reaction was evaluated through a thorough literature review including the summary of product characteristics. RESULTS: From 1972 to August 2017, 94 cases of hearing disorder associated with hydrochlorothiazide were submitted from 18 countries to VigiBase. The median age was 64 years with almost equal male to female ratio. In 53.2% of the cases, hydrochlorothiazide was reported as the only suspected drug. Of these, 26 cases encountered hearing disorder following the sole intake of hydrochlorothiazide. Reaction was marked as ""serious"" in 36% of the cases and median time to reaction onset was 3 days. Outcome was reported as reversible in 66.7% of the cases. Reaction resolved in 17 cases following withdrawal of hydrochlorothiazide and recurred in one case after subsequent rechallenge with the product. Consistency of cases and a dose-response relationship was also observed in this case series. CONCLUSIONS: This case series assessment found a suggestive causal relationship between hydrochlorothiazide and hearing disorder. Taking the inherent limitations of this study into account, results should be interpreted with caution and further studies are required to validate the safety signal."
29695269	Bupivacaine	Synovitis	0	0	0	0		Effect of a single intra-articular injection of bupivacaine on synovial fluid prostaglandin E(2) concentrations in normal canine stifles.	OBJECTIVE: To identify if synovial fluid prostaglandin E(2) increases in response to a single intra-articular dose of bupivacaine in the normal canine stifle. RESULTS: There were no significant differences in synovial fluid prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) concentrations between treatment groups or over time within bupivacaine or saline groups. Samples requiring >/= 3 arthrocentesis attempts had significantly higher PGE(2) concentrations compared to samples requiring 1 or 2 attempts. Following correction for number of arthrocentesis attempts, PGE(2) concentrations were significantly higher than baseline at 24 and 48 h in the bupivacaine group; however there were no significant differences between the bupivacaine and saline groups. In normal dogs, a single bupivacaine injection did not cause significant synovial inflammation, as measured by PGE(2) concentrations, compared to saline controls. Future research should minimize aspiration attempts and include evaluation of the synovial response to bupivacaine in clinical cases with joint disease.
29596816	Serotonin	Neuroendocrine Tumors	0	0	0	0		Comparison of serum serotonin and serum 5-HIAA LC-MS/MS assays in the diagnosis of serotonin producing neuroendocrine neoplasms: A pilot study.	BACKGROUND: Serotonin (5-hydroxytyramine) is a mediator of gastrointestinal smooth muscle contraction, and is secreted by neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). We developed a liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assay for serum serotonin to be used in NEN diagnostics and follow-up. METHODS: We used serum samples from healthy volunteers (n = 31) and patients suspected or monitored for NEN (n = 98). Serotonin-D(4) internal standard was added to samples before solid phase extraction (SPE) and quantification by LC-MS/MS. The effects of sample handling and preparation on serotonin stability were studied. Finally, we established a provisional reference range for serum serotonin and compared our assay with serum 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) for detection of NENs. RESULTS: Our assay is sensitive and has a wide linear range (10-10,000 nmol/l). Serum serotonin is stable for 7 days at room temperature and for 3 months at -20  degrees C. Sampling temperature is not critical. Normal range for serum serotonin was 270-1490 nmol/l. We found that serum serotonin and 5-HIAA performed equally well as diagnostic tests for NENs. CONCLUSIONS: Our LC-MS/MS assay for serum serotonin is well suited for clinical research and patient diagnostics. Our results confirm that it can complement 5-HIAA in diagnosis of NENs.
29529421	Clozapine	Cognitive Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		Clozapine use in geriatric patients- Challenges.	Clozapine is the first second generation antipsychotic with different receptor profile of action. Clozapine is the most efficacious drug for the treatment of psychotic disorder and is the drug of choice in treatment resistant schizophrenia. Clozapine is used in elderly patients infrequently owing to its adverse effects profile and tolerability. There is paucity of literature with respect to clozapine use in late life. In this narrative review, we discuss clozapine use in elderly and challenges associated with its use.
29485420	Epoprostenol	Diarrhea	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypocalcemia after Denosumab in a Pulmonary Hypertension Patient Receiving Epoprostenol.	We report the case of a 50-year-old woman with anorexigen-induced pulmonary arterial hypertension treated with epoprostenol, who presented with Trousseau's sign, leading to the diagnosis of severe hypocalcemia for which substitution was started (initially orally, followed by intravenous substitution). After further analysis, we assume that epoprostenol-induced diarrhea caused malabsorption (as other reasons were excluded), leading to nutritional osteomalacia with secondary hyperparathyroidism. We discovered that even more severe hypocalcemia was induced by the treatment with the anti-osteoporotic drug denosumab, which was started after the diagnosis of osteoporosis on bone densitometry. In our opinion, clinicians have to be aware that in patients with malabsorption, antiresorptive therapy can induce dangerous and even life-threatening hypocalcemia, even in patients with normal renal function.
29237497	Hyaluronic Acid	Multiple Organ Failure	0	0	0	0		Hyaluronic acid is associated with organ dysfunction in acute respiratory distress syndrome.	BACKGROUND: Hyaluronic acid (HA), an extracellular matrix component, is degraded in response to local tissue injury or stress. In various animal models of lung injury, HA has been shown to play a mechanistic role in modulating inflammation and injury. While HA is present in the lungs of patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), its relationship to patient outcomes is unknown. METHODS: We studied 86 patients with ARDS previously enrolled in the Phase II Randomized Trial of Fish Oil in Patients with Acute Lung Injury (NCT00351533) at five North American medical centers. We examined paired serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples obtained within 48 hours of diagnosis of ARDS. We evaluated the association of HA levels in serum and BALF with local (lung injury score (LIS)) and systemic (sequential organ failure assessment score (SOFA)) measures of organ dysfunction with regression analysis adjusting for age, sex, race, treatment group, and risk factor for ARDS. RESULTS: We found that both day-0 circulating and alveolar levels of HA were associated with worsening LIS (p = 0.04 and p = 0.003, respectively), particularly via associations with degree of hypoxemia (p = 0.02 and p < 0.001, respectively) and set positive end-expiratory pressure (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02, respectively). Circulating HA was associated with SOFA score (p < 0.001), driven by associations with the respiratory (p = 0.02), coagulation (p < 0.001), liver (p = 0.006), and renal (p = 0.01) components. Notably, the alveolar HA levels were associated with the respiratory component of the SOFA score (p = 0.003) but not the composite SOFA score (p = 0.27). CONCLUSIONS: Elevated alveolar levels of HA are associated with LIS while circulating levels are associated with both lung injury and SOFA scores. These findings suggest that HA has a potential role in both local and systemic organ dysfunction in patients with ARDS.
29218680	Tetrabenazine	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cardiovascular Profile of Valbenazine: Analysis of Pooled Data from Three Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials.	INTRODUCTION: Valbenazine is a novel vesicular monoamine transporter 2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in adults. OBJECTIVE: Using data from double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, analyses were conducted to evaluate the cardiovascular effects of once-daily valbenazine in patients with a psychiatric disorder who developed tardive dyskinesia after exposure to a dopamine-blocking medication. METHODS: Data were pooled from three 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials: KINECT (NCT01688037), KINECT 2 (NCT01733121), and KINECT 3 (NCT02274558). Data from the 42-week valbenazine extension period of KINECT 3 were also analyzed. Outcomes of interest included cardiovascular-related treatment-emergent adverse events, vital sign measurements, and electrocardiogram parameters. RESULTS: The pooled safety population included 400 participants (placebo, n = 178; valbenazine 40 mg/day, n = 110; valbenazine 80 mg/day, n = 112). A history of cardiac disorders was present in 11.8% of participants, and 74.3% were taking a concomitant medication with known potential for QT prolongation. Mean changes from baseline to week 6 in supine vital signs and QTcF (Fridericia correction) were as follows for placebo, valbenazine 40 mg/day, and valbenazine 80 mg/day, respectively: systolic blood pressure (0.2, - 2.1, - 1.8 mmHg), diastolic blood pressure (- 0.1, - 1.6, - 1.2 mmHg), heart rate (- 1.7, - 2.2, - 1.7 bpm), QTcF interval (1.2, 1.1, 2.1 ms); all p > 0.05 for valbenazine vs. placebo. No statistically significant differences were observed between placebo and valbenazine in cardiovascular-related, treatment-emergent adverse events. No notable additional effects on cardiovascular outcomes were found with up to 48 weeks of valbenazine treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Results from double-blind, placebo-controlled trials showed no apparent difference between valbenazine and placebo on cardiovascular outcomes. No additional cardiovascular risk was detected during a longer extension study with valbenazine.
29218680	Valine	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cardiovascular Profile of Valbenazine: Analysis of Pooled Data from Three Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials.	INTRODUCTION: Valbenazine is a novel vesicular monoamine transporter 2 inhibitor approved for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in adults. OBJECTIVE: Using data from double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, analyses were conducted to evaluate the cardiovascular effects of once-daily valbenazine in patients with a psychiatric disorder who developed tardive dyskinesia after exposure to a dopamine-blocking medication. METHODS: Data were pooled from three 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials: KINECT (NCT01688037), KINECT 2 (NCT01733121), and KINECT 3 (NCT02274558). Data from the 42-week valbenazine extension period of KINECT 3 were also analyzed. Outcomes of interest included cardiovascular-related treatment-emergent adverse events, vital sign measurements, and electrocardiogram parameters. RESULTS: The pooled safety population included 400 participants (placebo, n = 178; valbenazine 40 mg/day, n = 110; valbenazine 80 mg/day, n = 112). A history of cardiac disorders was present in 11.8% of participants, and 74.3% were taking a concomitant medication with known potential for QT prolongation. Mean changes from baseline to week 6 in supine vital signs and QTcF (Fridericia correction) were as follows for placebo, valbenazine 40 mg/day, and valbenazine 80 mg/day, respectively: systolic blood pressure (0.2, - 2.1, - 1.8 mmHg), diastolic blood pressure (- 0.1, - 1.6, - 1.2 mmHg), heart rate (- 1.7, - 2.2, - 1.7 bpm), QTcF interval (1.2, 1.1, 2.1 ms); all p > 0.05 for valbenazine vs. placebo. No statistically significant differences were observed between placebo and valbenazine in cardiovascular-related, treatment-emergent adverse events. No notable additional effects on cardiovascular outcomes were found with up to 48 weeks of valbenazine treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Results from double-blind, placebo-controlled trials showed no apparent difference between valbenazine and placebo on cardiovascular outcomes. No additional cardiovascular risk was detected during a longer extension study with valbenazine.
29164690	Methylmethacrylate	Stomatitis	1	0	0	0		Severe stomatitis with a deep buccal ulcer associated with an allergic reaction to methyl methacrylate used for dental treatment.	
28477303	Thyroxine	Stomatitis	1	0	0	0		Oral mucositis induced by treatment with soft gel formulation of levothyroxine.	
28375194	Infliximab	Breast Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Primary Breast Lymphoma with cutaneous involvement in a patient with Rheumatoid Arthritis - a complication of infliximab therapy?	It is well established that rheumatoid arthritis is associated with an increased risk of lymphoma. The use of tumor-necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors as a therapy in rheumatoid arthritis has been related to higher incidence of lymphoma arising at atypical and/or unusual locations; however, recent data shows their safety. We report the case of a 79 year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis treated with infliximab, who presented a primary breast lymphoma with cutaneous involvement.
28375194	Infliximab	Lymphoma, B-Cell, Marginal Zone	1	1	0	0	0.0	Primary Breast Lymphoma with cutaneous involvement in a patient with Rheumatoid Arthritis - a complication of infliximab therapy?	It is well established that rheumatoid arthritis is associated with an increased risk of lymphoma. The use of tumor-necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors as a therapy in rheumatoid arthritis has been related to higher incidence of lymphoma arising at atypical and/or unusual locations; however, recent data shows their safety. We report the case of a 79 year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis treated with infliximab, who presented a primary breast lymphoma with cutaneous involvement.
28050032	Aspirin	Sigmoid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Submucosal Hematoma of the Sigmoid Colon Due to Anticoagulation Therapy.	
28050032	Ticlopidine	Sigmoid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Submucosal Hematoma of the Sigmoid Colon Due to Anticoagulation Therapy.	
29341183	Chlorambucil	Hypersensitivity, Delayed	1	0	0	0		Systemic delayed hypersensitivity reaction to chlorambucil: a case report and literature review.	
29906236	Iodine	Respiratory Aspiration	0	0	0	0		The effect of preparative solid food status on the occurrence of nausea, vomiting and aspiration symptoms in enhanced CT examination: prospective observational study.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the correlation between preparative solid food status and the incidence of nausea, vomiting and aspiration symptoms in contrast-enhanced CT examination, and to provide direction for standardizing the preparative dietary policies. METHODS: Patients who underwent routine enhanced CT examination at our hospital between June 2015 and June 2017 (110,836 cases) were enrolled and allocated into solid food fasting group (51,807 cases) and solid food non-fasting group (59,029 cases). Fluids ingestion was not restricted for any case. The differences in the incidence of nausea, vomiting and aspiration symptoms between the two groups of patients with various basic data were compared. The risk factors for the occurrence of nausea, vomiting and aspiration symptoms were analyzed. RESULTS: The total incidence of nausea and vomiting was extremely low (0.071%), and no aspiration developed. There was no significant difference in the incidence of nausea and vomiting between the two groups in all respects (p > 0.05). The incidence of nausea and vomiting in patients with an iodine adverse drug reaction (ADR) history was higher than those with other ADR history (p = 0.008) and those without ADR history (p = 0.001). CONCLUSION: The occurrence of nausea and vomiting has no correlation with the preparative solid food status. Unless compulsory in clinical needs and constraints and gastrointestinal examination, solid food fasting is not a must in other examinations. Particular attention should be paid to the patients with an iodine ADR history in an effort to prevent possible ADRs. ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: The correlation between preparative solid food status and the incidence of nausea, vomiting and aspiration symptoms in contrast-enhanced CT examination were comprehensively analyzed in a large-scale population.
29330715	Roxithromycin	Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Case Series Analysis of New Zealand Reports of Rapid Intense Potentiation of Warfarin by Roxithromycin.	INTRODUCTION: We undertook an analysis of all the reports to the New Zealand Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring of a roxithromycin/warfarin interaction after two recent reports described intense rapid warfarin potentiation. The interaction was first published in 1995. Cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibition has been the proposed mechanism but has limited biologic plausibility. There are suggestions that the clinical significance of the interaction may be increased by severe illness, polypharmacy, renal dysfunction, older age and increased warfarin sensitivity. METHODS: To investigate the potentiating effect of warfarin on roxithromycin in this New Zealand case series, the reports were reviewed to identify patients at risk, compare the reporting pattern with published Australian data and evaluate the appropriateness of current prescribing advice. RESULTS: Thirty patient reports were identified. The age range was 23-88 years, mean 66.8, median 73.0 (standard deviation 17.7) and the international normalised ratios after roxithromycin commencement ranged from 3.6 to 16.7 (mean 7.6, median 7.6, standard deviation 3.6). For eight patients with measurements on day 3, international normalised ratios were 4.3-16.7 (mean 10.4, median 8.8, standard deviation 4.4). Four patients had serious haemorrhage. Indications for roxithromycin were a range of respiratory tract infections. Anticoagulation was stable for most patients prior to acute infection. Serious infection occurred in 54.5% (12 of 22 patients with information). Polypharmacy (five or more medicines daily) was used by 36.7% of patients long term, increasing acutely to 83.3%, including additional potentially interacting medicines. Warfarin daily dose (1.5-13.0 mg, mean 4.4, median 4.0, standard deviation 2.2) was moderate to low. Pre-roxithromycin international normalised ratio values ranged from 1.4 to 3.7, mean and median 2.5, standard deviation 0.5. A high proportion of interactions were observed between warfarin and roxithromycin compared with other macrolides and compared with cytochrome P450 3A4-related macrolide interactions. The pattern was similar to published Australian data. CONCLUSION: In this case series, the high prevalence of acute polypharmacy, including potentially interacting medicines, and serious infection suggests that they may have contributed to warfarin potentiation and increased the clinical significance of a roxithromycin/warfarin interaction.
29110252	Itraconazole	Psoriasis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of Psoriasis Following Terbinafine or Itraconazole Treatment for Onychomycosis: A Population-Based Case-Control Comparative Study.	INTRODUCTION: Several case studies have reported an association between antifungal drug use and psoriasis risk. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to investigate the association between terbinafine/itraconazole exposure and psoriasis incidence. METHODS: Among patients with onychomycosis in the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database, 3831 incident psoriasis cases were identified during 2004-2010 and compared with 3831 age- and sex-matched controls with the same look-back period. Multivariate conditional logistic regression was used for the analysis. RESULTS: The psoriasis cases were significantly more likely than matched controls to have used terbinafine or itraconazole (59.85 vs. 42.70%, respectively; p < 0.0001). After adjusting for potential confounders and cumulative duration of antifungal drug prescription, terbinafine/itraconazole use was associated with an increased psoriasis risk (adjusted odds ratio 1.33, 95% confidence interval 1.15-1.54). The association was stronger for more recent drug exposure (adjusted odds ratio 2.96, 95% confidence interval 2.25-3.90 for </= 90 days before the sampling date; adjusted odds ratio 1.04, 95% confidence interval 0.89-1.22 for > 360 days). In a comparison of patients receiving terbinafine or itraconazole only, psoriasis risk was higher for itraconazole (adjusted odds ratio 1.21, 95% confidence interval 1.05-1.40). CONCLUSION: This large population-based case-control analysis showed that exposure to terbinafine or itraconazole is associated with an increased risk of incident psoriasis. The finding of an increased psoriasis risk for antifungal drug users, particularly for itraconazole, deserves attention in clinical practice although further prospective studies are necessary to confirm our findings and clarify the biological mechanisms that underlie these associations.
28457476	Methamphetamine	Stomatognathic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Mechanisms underlying methamphetamine-related dental disease.	"BACKGROUND: The authors clarified the causal mechanisms underlying the high prevalence of dental disease encountered in people who habitually use methamphetamine (meth). METHODS: Using a stratified sampling approach, the authors conducted comprehensive oral examinations and psychosocial assessments for 571 study participants who used meth. Three calibrated dentists, who used National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) protocols, characterized the study participants' dental disease. The authors also collected data related to study participants' history of meth use and other attributes linked to dental disease. RESULTS: Study participants who used meth manifested higher rates of xerostomia and caries experience compared with NHANES control participants. Participants who used meth had a higher level of daily consumption of sugary beverages compared with NHANES control participants. Smoking meth did not increase caries experience over other modes of intake. Dental hygiene was a significant determinant of dental health outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Mode of intake and frequency of meth use have a minimal impact on dental health outcomes. Behaviors, such as sugary beverage consumption and poor oral hygiene, better explain dental health outcomes. PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: Having a better understanding of the causal mechanisms of ""meth mouth"" sets the stage for clinicians to provide more personalized interventions and management of dental disease in people who use meth."
28265044	Oxycodone	Hearing Loss	0	0	0	0		Clinical Reasoning: A young woman with respiratory failure, hearing loss, and paraplegia.	
28265044	Oxycodone	Paraplegia	0	0	0	0		Clinical Reasoning: A young woman with respiratory failure, hearing loss, and paraplegia.	
29873957	Bupropion	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2	1	0	0	0		Risk of Diabetes Hospitalization or Diabetes Drug Intensification in Patients With Depression and Diabetes Using Second-Generation Antipsychotics Compared to Other Depression Therapies.	OBJECTIVE: Use of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) for treatment of depression has increased, and patients with depression and comorbid diabetes or cardiovascular disease are more likely to use SGAs than those without these conditions. We compared SGA and non-SGA depression pharmacotherapies on the risk of diabetes hospitalization or treatment intensification in adults with depression and preexisting diabetes. METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study of US commercially insured adults (2009-2015 Truven MarketScan Commercial Claims and Encounters Database) aged 18-64 years old with type 2 diabetes mellitus and unipolar depression previously treated with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. New users of SGAs versus non-SGAs, as well as specific treatments (aripiprazole, quetiapine, bupropion, mirtazapine, and tricyclic antidepressants [TCAs]) were matched on class/medication-specific high-dimensional propensity score. Cox proportional hazard models were used to compare the risk of diabetes-related hospitalization or treatment intensification. RESULTS: We identified 6,625 SGA (aripiprazole = 3,461; quetiapine = 1,977; other = 1,187) and 23,921 non-SGA patients for inclusion (bupropion = 15,511; mirtazapine = 1,837; TCAs = 5,989; other = 584) with a mean age of 51 years. In the matched cohort, the rate of diabetes-related hospitalization or drug intensification was 47.9 per 100 person-years in the SGA group and 43.5 per 100 person-years in the non-SGA group (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] = 1.03; 95% CI, 0.96-1.11). When comparing treatment subgroups, the risk of events was lower for bupropion versus TCAs (aHR = 0.85; 95% CI, 0.76-0.98), quetiapine versus mirtazapine (aHR = 0.82; 95% CI, 0.67-0.99), and quetiapine versus TCAs (aHR = 0.84; 95% CI, 0.72-0.98). For other comparisons, differences were small and not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: While drug-specific effects on risk of diabetes hospitalization or treatment intensification most likely guide clinical decision making, we observed only modest differences in risk. The overall impact of SGAs on diabetes control depends not only on direct effects on glucose metabolism but also on effectiveness of depression symptom relief. Future studies evaluating other diabetes outcomes (glycosylated hemoglobin, diabetes complications) are needed.
29671676	Pregabalin	Tremor	1	0	0	0		Effects of gabapentin, pregabalin and gastroretentive gabapentin on simulated driving, daytime sedation and cognition.	AIM: Randomized Phase I study examining the effects of gabapentinoids gabapentin, pregabalin and gastroretentive gabapentin on simulated driving performance, sedation and cognitive function in healthy volunteers (n = 32). METHODS: Driving attentiveness, sleepiness and cognition were evaluated prior to subjects receiving study doses. Blood samples were collected during each treatment. RESULTS: Subjects receiving gastroretentive gabapentin showed less change in variation in lateral lane position (p = 0.0275), less tremor (p = 0.0304) and fewer vision disturbances compared with gabapentin (p = 0.0177). Statistically significant decrease in One Card Learning Test performance was observed after treatment with gastroretentive gabapentin. CONCLUSION: Gastroretentive gabapentin demonstrated reduced driving impairment and lower scores on key neurotoxicity measures. Further studies in patients with postherpetic neuralgia are needed. Clinical trial number: NCT03179345.
29634886	Dacarbazine	Inflammation	1	1	0	0	1.0	Temozolomide-induced inflammation of disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis.	We report a case of temozolomide (TMZ)-induced inflammation of disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP), an uncommon and pre-malignant cutaneous disorder. Dermatologists and oncologists should be aware of this cutaneous eruption of DSAP associated with TMZ to prevent the discontinuation of effective medical therapy in cancer patients.
29634886	Dacarbazine	Porokeratosis	1	1	0	0	1.0	Temozolomide-induced inflammation of disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis.	We report a case of temozolomide (TMZ)-induced inflammation of disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP), an uncommon and pre-malignant cutaneous disorder. Dermatologists and oncologists should be aware of this cutaneous eruption of DSAP associated with TMZ to prevent the discontinuation of effective medical therapy in cancer patients.
30268094	Ibuprofen	Hyperlipidemias	1	1	1	1	1.0	Vanishing bile duct syndrome with hyperlipidemia after ibuprofen therapy in an adult patient: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are frequently prescribed drugs and can cause drug-induced liver injury. Although patients with drug-induced liver injury from NSAIDs often recover spontaneously, 3% of them required hospitalization and those with persistent cholestasis present a diagnostic challenge. Recently, a few cases of children with persistent jaundice reported have been linked to the vanishing bile duct syndrome. However, data on adult patients is limited. CASE PRESENTATION: We report herein a case of an adult patient who had persistent cholestasis with hyperlipidemia from the VBDS after ibuprofen use. We described a female patient with severe jaundice after taking ibuprofen, although she had no history of liver disease before. The drug-induced liver injury from ibuprofen was identified by clinical features and liver biopsy, which included the Roussel Uclaf Causality Assessment Method scores of 6 and pathological features of cholestasis with stage four drug-induced injury as well as loss of bile duct structures. The clinical course was featuring with persistently high levels of bilirubin associated with hyperlipidemia over the period of one month, although the laboratory abnormalities were slightly improved spontaneously after the cessation of ibuprofen. Her autoantibodies markers including AMA-M2 ASMA, RO-52, LKM, SLA, and anti-glycoprotein-210 were negative. The second liver biopsy was performed on day 213 due to persistent hyperbilirubinemia. Pathological findings were consistent with the diagnosis of vanishing bile duct syndrome. CONCLUSIONS: A rare case of ibuprofen-associated vanishing bile duct syndrome in an adult female patient is presented. Clinicians need to be aware of vanishing bile duct syndrome as a serious consequence of ibuprofen use in adult patients, although ibuprofen is considered to be among the safest NSAIDs.
30178284	Sevelamer	Gastritis	1	0	0	0		Upper Gastrointestinal Bleeding of Unusual Causation.	
29948232	Lithium	Neurodevelopmental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Long-term neurodevelopmental consequences of intrauterine exposure to lithium and antipsychotics: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Lithium and antipsychotics are often prescribed to treat bipolar disorder or psychotic disorders in women of childbearing age. Little is known about the consequences of these medications during pregnancy for the developing child. The objective of this article is to systematically review findings from preclinical and clinical studies that have examined the neurodevelopmental consequences of intrauterine exposure to lithium and antipsychotics. A systematic search was performed in Embase, Medline, Web of Science, PsychINFO, Cochrane, and Google Scholar. Clinical and experimental studies were selected if they investigated neurodevelopment of offspring exposed to lithium or antipsychotics during gestation. Quality of clinical and preclinical studies was assessed by the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and the SYRCLE's risk of Bias tool, respectively. In total, 73 studies were selected for qualitative synthesis and three studies were selected for quantitative synthesis. Of preclinical studies, 93% found one or more adverse effects of prenatal exposure to antipsychotics or lithium on neurodevelopment or behaviour. Only three clinical cohort studies have investigated the consequences of lithium exposure, all of which reported normal development. In 66% of clinical studies regarding antipsychotic exposure, a transient delay in neurodevelopment was observed. The relative risk for neuromotor deficits after in utero exposure to antipsychotics was estimated to be 1.63 (95% CI 1.22-2.19; I(2) = 0%). Preclinical studies suggest long-term adverse neurodevelopmental consequences of intrauterine exposure to either lithium or antipsychotics. However, there is a lack of high-quality clinical studies. Interpretation is difficult, since most studies have compared exposed children with their peers from the unaffected population, which did not allow correction for potential influences regarding genetic predisposition or parental psychiatric illness.
27730799	Piracetam	Agranulocytosis	1	0	1	1	1.0	An Unusual Side Effect Of A Commonly Used Antiepileptic Drug.	
29971696	Ipilimumab	Endocrine System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Endocrine, Sexual Function, and Infertility Side Effects of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy for Genitourinary Cancers.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Immune checkpoint therapy has grown in prominence in the last few decades and is being increasingly utilized in treatment of advanced cancers. Although information on toxicities of these drugs is forthcoming, not much is known regarding the toxicity profile of these drugs from a sexual function standpoint. We undertook the current review to appraise the literature for endocrine/sexual side effects of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 and anti-CTLA-4 therapy. RECENT FINDINGS: Our review included 32 articles and focused primarily on the programmed death (PD) pathway. We found that endocrine side effects after anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy are relatively rare, with hypothyroidism (range < 1 to 40%) and hypophysitis (range < 1 to 10%) being the two most common. None of the studies specifically commented on the infertility or sexual side effects of these drugs. However, two studies evaluating biochemical profiles of patients undergoing therapy with ipilimumab (a CTLA-4 inhibitor) or combination therapy (CTLA-4 + PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors) noted that about < 1 to ~ 60% of the patients developed hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. None of the studies provided information regarding clinically meaningful sexual health endpoints such as libido, erectile function assessments, or sexual function-related quality of life. Endocrine side effects, although uncommon, are important and unique side effects of immune checkpoint therapy because they are often complex and can be life threatening. While side effects on sexual health may not be life threatening, they are lifestyle limiting. Thus, long-term follow-up, post-marketing surveillance, and future studies will need to elucidate the true rates of endocrine/sexual side effects and the mechanisms underlying them. This will aid in better counseling of the patients, as more of them undergo these novel immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies.
29776936	Isoniazid	Vocal Cord Paralysis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ethambutol and isoniazid induced severe neurotoxicity in a patient undergoing continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.	Ethambutol (EMB) and isoniazid (INH) are the first-line antituberculosis (anti-TB) drugs. However, their neurotoxicity could cause adverse effect and the patients with end-stage renal disease are especially vulnerable due to the reduction in renal drug clearance. Here, we report a 36-year-old man receiving peritoneal dialysis developed progressive paralysis in lower extremities, vision loss and hoarseness 4 months after anti-TB treatment with INH, EMB and rifapentine because of concomitant pulmonary tuberculosis. A diagnosis of EMB/INH-induced peripheral neuropathy, retrobulbar neuritis and laryngoparalysis was made. The patient's neuropathy gradually improved 2 years after discontinuation of EMB/INH. Since EMB and INH may cause simultaneously severe and complex multineuropathy in dialysis patients, their adverse effects should be closely supervised in dialysis patients.
29736992	Ceftriaxone	Heart Failure	0	0	0	0		Acute mast cell leukemia: A rare but highly aggressive hematopoietic neoplasm.	
29736992	Ceftriaxone	Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult	0	0	0	0		Acute mast cell leukemia: A rare but highly aggressive hematopoietic neoplasm.	
29680794	Paliperidone Palmitate	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risperidone-associated sinus tachycardia potentiated by paliperidone palmitate in a patient with no prior cardiovascular disease: role of risperidone-related autonomic instability.	Risperidone and paliperidone palmitate are two antipsychotic drugs well tolerated in the management of schizophrenia and other psychiatric conditions. There have been few reports of tachycardia induced by either drugs. Here, we report on a 21-year-old man, with a history of schizophrenia, and who developed persistent sinus tachycardia after he was restarted on risperidone, which later worsened after administration of paliperidone palmitate for long-term management. He had no cardiovascular risk factors other than obesity, and a prior well-tolerated risperidone treatment. Clinicians must be aware of the possibility of patients developing sinus tachycardia due to autonomic instability from a prior risperidone treatment, even though overall, these drugs are well tolerated.
29654227	Tacrolimus	Back Pain	1	1	1	1	1.0	An Unusual Manifestation of Calcineurin Inhibitor-Induced Pain Syndrome in Kidney Transplantation: A Case Report and Literature Review.	BACKGROUND Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) are the mainstay immunosuppressive drugs for kidney transplantation. Although they provide excellent allograft and patient outcomes, adverse effects are frequently encountered. Calcineurin inhibitor-induced pain syndrome (CIPS) is a rare adverse effect of CNI. Previous case reports with CIPS diagnosis involved incapacitating pain in the lower extremities. CASE REPORT In this article, we report the first case of CIPS with severe back pain as the presenting symptom, which was correlated with a high tacrolimus trough concentration due to a drug interaction with clotrimazole troche. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine showed bone marrow edema, which is consistent with previous case reports. The patient's symptoms resolved within 3 weeks of the onset of pain. Treatments were symptomatic care and lowering the tacrolimus trough concentration. Pain was improved significantly with pregabalin but not with nifedipine. CONCLUSIONS We reviewed the literature of kidney transplant cohorts with CIPS to ascertain prevalence, pain characteristics, and treatment outcomes. Apart from our case, all patients experienced lower extremities pain and were pain-free during the follow-up period, without any residual abnormalities. CIPS is a benign but adverse effect of CNI. Counselling patients about the disease's natural history and supportive care remain the best treatment.
29611267	Acetaminophen	Edema	1	0	0	0		Delayed-type drug hypersensitivity caused by paracetamol in a 2-year-old boy, confirmed by a positive patch test reaction and oral provocation.	
29479026	Simvastatin	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Histologic comparison of direct pulp capping of rat molars with MTA and different concentrations of simvastatin gel.	Previous in vitro studies have suggested that simvastatin can be used as a direct pulp capping material due to its ability to induce odontoblastic differentiation and angiogenesis. The aim of this animal study was to evaluate the pulpal response to mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) and four concentrations of simvastatin/MTA in combination. The study was conducted in two stages using four different simvastatin concentrations and MTA as a capping material for rat maxillary molars. The grades of inflammation and continuity of dentin formation were evaluated in hematoxylin and eosin (HE)-stained samples. Dentin thickness was determined by histomorphometric analysis, and the data were subjected to statistical analysis. On day 3, mild inflammation was observed in all groups. On day 7, the simvastatin groups showed a slightly higher rate of chronic inflammation. Inflammation was not present on day 30. Discontinuous dentin was present in all methylcellulose (control) samples. Continuous dentin was formed in all of the samples treated with 1.5% simvastatin. The greatest dentin thickness was observed after treatment with 1.5% simvastatin and MTA, followed by 0.5% simvastatin. Statistical analysis demonstrated no significant differences in dentin thickness and continuity between MTA and simvastatin at 0.5% and 1.5% (P > 0.05).
29257800	Infliximab	Mandibular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Case of Osteonecrosis of the Jaw in a Patient with Crohn's Disease Treated with Infliximab.	Patient: Female, 49 Final Diagnosis: Medication related osteonecrosis of the jaw Symptoms: Painful bone exposure * pus discharge Medication: Infliximab Clinical Procedure: Surgical removal of necrotic bone Specialty: Surgery OBJECTIVE: Unusual clinical course BACKGROUND: Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) is a severe adverse drug reaction, occurring in patients undergoing treatments with antiresorptive or antiangiogenic agents, such as bisphosphonates, denosumab, or bevacizumab, for different oncologic and non-oncologic diseases. The aim of this study was to report a case of MRONJ in a patient taking infliximab, an anti-TNF-alpha antibody used to treat Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, and plaque psoriasis. CASE REPORT: A 49-year-old female patient affected by Crohn's disease, who had been undergoing 250 mg intravenous infliximab every six weeks for 12 years, with no history of antiresorptive or antiangiogenic agent administration, came to our attention for post-surgical MRONJ, associated with a wide cutaneous necrotic area of her anterior mandible. Following antibiotic cycles, the patient underwent surgical treatment with wide bone resection and debridement of necrotic tissues; after prolonged follow-up (16 months), the patient completely healed without signs of recurrence. CONCLUSIONS: Prevention of MRONJ by dental check-up before and during treatments with antiresorptive treatments (bisphosphonates or denosumab) is a well-established procedure. Although further studies are required to confirm the role of infliximab in MRONJ, based on the results of this study, we propose that patients who are going to be treated with infliximab should also undergo dental check-up before starting therapy, to possibly avoid MRONJ onset.
29257800	Infliximab	Osteonecrosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Case of Osteonecrosis of the Jaw in a Patient with Crohn's Disease Treated with Infliximab.	Patient: Female, 49 Final Diagnosis: Medication related osteonecrosis of the jaw Symptoms: Painful bone exposure * pus discharge Medication: Infliximab Clinical Procedure: Surgical removal of necrotic bone Specialty: Surgery OBJECTIVE: Unusual clinical course BACKGROUND: Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) is a severe adverse drug reaction, occurring in patients undergoing treatments with antiresorptive or antiangiogenic agents, such as bisphosphonates, denosumab, or bevacizumab, for different oncologic and non-oncologic diseases. The aim of this study was to report a case of MRONJ in a patient taking infliximab, an anti-TNF-alpha antibody used to treat Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, and plaque psoriasis. CASE REPORT: A 49-year-old female patient affected by Crohn's disease, who had been undergoing 250 mg intravenous infliximab every six weeks for 12 years, with no history of antiresorptive or antiangiogenic agent administration, came to our attention for post-surgical MRONJ, associated with a wide cutaneous necrotic area of her anterior mandible. Following antibiotic cycles, the patient underwent surgical treatment with wide bone resection and debridement of necrotic tissues; after prolonged follow-up (16 months), the patient completely healed without signs of recurrence. CONCLUSIONS: Prevention of MRONJ by dental check-up before and during treatments with antiresorptive treatments (bisphosphonates or denosumab) is a well-established procedure. Although further studies are required to confirm the role of infliximab in MRONJ, based on the results of this study, we propose that patients who are going to be treated with infliximab should also undergo dental check-up before starting therapy, to possibly avoid MRONJ onset.
29171944	Sildenafil Citrate	Central Serous Chorioretinopathy	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Central serous chorioretinopathy following the use of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors].	Central serous chorioretinopathy occurs primarily in young caucasian men. It is characterized by the development of a serous detachment of the sensory retina with the apparition of a relative central scotomata. An association with phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors is reported in some articles. We described two cases of central serous chorioretinopathy following the use of tadalafil and sildenafil.
29171944	Tadalafil	Central Serous Chorioretinopathy	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Central serous chorioretinopathy following the use of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors].	Central serous chorioretinopathy occurs primarily in young caucasian men. It is characterized by the development of a serous detachment of the sensory retina with the apparition of a relative central scotomata. An association with phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors is reported in some articles. We described two cases of central serous chorioretinopathy following the use of tadalafil and sildenafil.
28849319	Thalidomide	Prostatic Neoplasms	0	1	1	1		Robotic assisted radical prostatectomy for localised prostate cancer in thalidomide generation.	Thalidomide was used in the late 1950s and early 1960s as a sedative for morning sickness in pregnant women. It resulted in thousands of babies being born with various congenital anomalies, such as phocomelia. Subsequently, the drug was banned for this indication. Most of the survivors have become thalidomide adults and now they are in their fifties. We report the first case of a robot-assisted radical prostatectomy in a 54-year-old male with prostate cancer and phocomelia as a result of thalidomide embryopathy. He presented with a PSA of 3.3 and was diagnosed with Gleason 3 + 4 prostate cancer. An extra peritoneal approach was chosen due to his body habitus and to avoid extreme Trendelenburg tilt. Side docking with the da Vinci robot was employed and the prostatectomy was carried out in the standard extra peritoneal fashion. At 6 months' follow-up his PSA is unrecordable and he is voiding well with minimal urinary incontinence, requiring 1 pad/day. We aim to outline our approach and highlight the technical modifications in this rare physically disabling condition.
28730738	Starch	Lung Injury	0	0	0	0		The effects of aspirated thickened water on survival and pulmonary injury in a rabbit model.	OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Liquid thickeners are one of the most frequently utilized treatment strategies for persons with oropharyngeal swallowing dysfunction. The effect of commercially available thickeners on lung injury is uncertain. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of aspiration of water alone, xanthan gum (XG)-thickened water, and cornstarch (CS)-thickened water on survival and lung morphology in a rabbit model. STUDY DESIGN: Animal model. Prospective small animal clinical trial. METHODS: Adult New Zealand White rabbits (n = 24) were divided into three groups of eight rabbits. The groups underwent 3 consecutive days of 1.5 mL/kg intratracheal instillation of water (n = 8), XG-thickened water (n = 8), and CS-thickened water (n = 8). The animals were euthanized on day 4, and survival and pulmonary histopathology were compared between groups. RESULTS: In all, 12.5% of rabbits (n = 8) instilled with CS-thickened water survived until the endpoint of the study (day 4). All animals instilled with water (n = 8) or XG-thickened water (n = 8) survived. A mild increase in intra-alveolar hemorrhage was observed for the animals instilled with CS-thickened water compared to the other groups (P < .05). In the groups that survived to the endpoint of the study, instillation of water thickened with XG resulted in greater pulmonary inflammation, pulmonary interstitial congestion, and alveolar edema than water alone (P < .05). CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that 3 consecutive days of 1.5 mg/kg of aspirated CS-thickened water are fatal, and that XG-thickened water is more injurious than aspirated water alone. Additional research is necessary to further delineate the dangers of aspirated thickened liquids. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA. Laryngoscope, 128:327-331, 2018.
28730738	Water	Lung Injury	0	0	0	0		The effects of aspirated thickened water on survival and pulmonary injury in a rabbit model.	OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Liquid thickeners are one of the most frequently utilized treatment strategies for persons with oropharyngeal swallowing dysfunction. The effect of commercially available thickeners on lung injury is uncertain. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of aspiration of water alone, xanthan gum (XG)-thickened water, and cornstarch (CS)-thickened water on survival and lung morphology in a rabbit model. STUDY DESIGN: Animal model. Prospective small animal clinical trial. METHODS: Adult New Zealand White rabbits (n = 24) were divided into three groups of eight rabbits. The groups underwent 3 consecutive days of 1.5 mL/kg intratracheal instillation of water (n = 8), XG-thickened water (n = 8), and CS-thickened water (n = 8). The animals were euthanized on day 4, and survival and pulmonary histopathology were compared between groups. RESULTS: In all, 12.5% of rabbits (n = 8) instilled with CS-thickened water survived until the endpoint of the study (day 4). All animals instilled with water (n = 8) or XG-thickened water (n = 8) survived. A mild increase in intra-alveolar hemorrhage was observed for the animals instilled with CS-thickened water compared to the other groups (P < .05). In the groups that survived to the endpoint of the study, instillation of water thickened with XG resulted in greater pulmonary inflammation, pulmonary interstitial congestion, and alveolar edema than water alone (P < .05). CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that 3 consecutive days of 1.5 mg/kg of aspirated CS-thickened water are fatal, and that XG-thickened water is more injurious than aspirated water alone. Additional research is necessary to further delineate the dangers of aspirated thickened liquids. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA. Laryngoscope, 128:327-331, 2018.
28362663	Valproic Acid	Stomach Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		RECURRENT GASTRIC POLYPOSIS IN A PATIENT USING ANTIEPILEPTIC DRUGS FOR A LONG TIME.	
28263222	Everolimus	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2	0	1	0	0		mTOR and Cardiovascular Diseases: Diabetes Mellitus.	The mammalian targets of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors are potent immunosuppressors used for prevention of acute rejection after transplantation and have been more recently used as anticancer drugs. mTOR inhibitors have a significant impact on glucose metabolism and frequently induce diabetes. mTOR inhibitors, when used as immunosuppressive agents (sirolimus, everolimus), can induce diabetes with an incidence which is low when used without calcineurin inhibitors but high when used in combination with calcineurin inhibitors (from 11.0% to 38.1%). mTOR inhibitors used as anticancer agents (everolimus, temsirolimus) increase significantly the risk for new-onset diabetes and induce a 5-fold increase in the risk for severe hyperglycemia. The deleterious effect of mTOR inhibitors on glucose metabolism is due to an increased insulin resistance secondary to a reduction of the insulin signaling pathway within the cell and a reduction of insulin secretion via a direct effect on the pancreatic beta cells. Because of the risk for diabetes, it is recommended, when starting a treatment with an mTOR inhibitor, to check fasting blood glucose every 2 weeks during the first month of treatment then every month and HbA1c every 3 months and to intensify self-monitoring of blood glucose in patients with known diabetes. When fasting blood glucose is more than 126 mg/dL (7.0 mmol/L), when plasma glucose is more than 200 mg/dL at any time, or when HbA1c is more than 6.5%, it is recommended to start antidiabetic treatment.
28230638	Everolimus	Atherosclerosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	mTOR Inhibition and Cardiovascular Diseases: Dyslipidemia and Atherosclerosis.	Inhibitors of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) have unique antiatherosclerotic effects, such as depletion of plaque macrophages, induction of autophagy, and activation of cholesterol efflux. However, a common side effect of their use is dyslipidemia, a well-known risk factor for atherosclerosis. Indeed, mTOR inhibitors prevent lipid storage, increase low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and activate lipolysis. Although the net effect of mTOR inhibition seems favorable, the use of cholesterol lowering drugs to manage dyslipidemia remains the most recommended strategy.
28230638	Everolimus	Dyslipidemias	1	1	0	0	0.0	mTOR Inhibition and Cardiovascular Diseases: Dyslipidemia and Atherosclerosis.	Inhibitors of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) have unique antiatherosclerotic effects, such as depletion of plaque macrophages, induction of autophagy, and activation of cholesterol efflux. However, a common side effect of their use is dyslipidemia, a well-known risk factor for atherosclerosis. Indeed, mTOR inhibitors prevent lipid storage, increase low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and activate lipolysis. Although the net effect of mTOR inhibition seems favorable, the use of cholesterol lowering drugs to manage dyslipidemia remains the most recommended strategy.
26645266	Fructose	Heart Injuries	0	0	0	0		Protective effects of aspirin and vitamin C against corn syrup consumption-induced cardiac damage through sirtuin-1 and HIF-1alpha pathway.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of aspirin (AS) and vitamin C (VC) against cardiac damage induced by chronic corn syrup (CS) consumption via a mechanism involving sirtuin-1 (ST-1), hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), and the caspase-3 pathway in rats. METHODS: Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats (14-16 weeks) that weighed 250-300 g were randomly distributed into 5 groups, each containing 8 rats: control group, CS+AS group, CS+VC group, CS+AS+VC group, and CS group. AS (10 mg/kg/day) and VC (200 mg/kg/day) were orally given to the rats. F30 (30% fructose syrup solution) was given to the rats in drinking water for 6 weeks. The rats were sacrificed by exsanguination 24 h after the last administration. Blood samples and tissue were collected for biochemical, histopathological, and immunohistochemical examinations. Non-parametric Kruskal-Wallis test and Mann-Whitney U test used for the parameters without normal distribution and ANOVA and post-hoc LSD tests were used for parameters with a normal distribution to compare groups. RESULTS: Uric acid, creatine kinase (CKMB), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were increased in the CS group compared with the control group (1.45+/-0.39 and p=0.011; 3225.64+/-598.25 and p=0.004; 3906.83+/-1064.22 and p=0.002, respectively) and decreased in all the treatment groups. In addition, increased levels of MDA and decreased activity of CAT in the CS group (0.172+/-0.03 and p=0.000; 0.070+/-0.005 and p=0.007, respectively) were reversed with AS and VC therapy. A decrease in ST-1 activity and increases in caspase-3 and HIF-1 activities corrected by VC and AS therapy were observed. CONCLUSION: AS and VC, which display antioxidant and antiapoptotic activities, ameliorated cardiac damage induced by chronic fructose consumption by increasing the levels of ST-1 and decreasing the levels of HIF-1alpha and caspase-3.
29909472	Dutasteride	Infertility, Male	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Impact of 5alpha-Reductase Inhibitor Use for Male Pattern Hair Loss on Men's Health.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Male pattern hair loss, mediated by dihydrotestosterone, is a common hair loss disorder, affecting over 50% of men over the age of 50. The 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, finasteride and dutasteride, are Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs for the treatment of this disorder. Several recent studies have reported adverse sexual and spermatogenic events among young men using 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, such as erectile dysfunction, decreased ejaculate volume, decreased libido, and infertility. In this review, we summarize and analyze the literature regarding the efficacy and safety of these medications, with an overall focus on men's health. RECENT FINDINGS: Finasteride for the treatment of male pattern hair loss was considered safe according to many previous clinical trials. However, these trials have been recently criticized for inadequate safety reporting. Comprehensive review of the current literature reveals that there is a disproportionately high number of men with 5-alpha reductase inhibitor-associated sexual dysfunction and infertility. Although uncommon, the use of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors is associated with serious and persistent sexual and reproductive side effects, such as erectile dysfunction, decreased ejaculate volume, decreased libido, and infertility.
29666099	Rivastigmine	Bradycardia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Collapse in the elderly: rivastigmine-induced heart block and a literature review of the pharmacology of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors used in Alzheimer's disease.	Falls resulting in neck of femur fractures are common in the elderly. Often multiple comorbidities can make management and diagnosis of such a polyfactorial condition difficult, particularly with Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Indeed, poorly managed AD may contribute to falls. We present our management of an 87-year-old woman, on rivastigmine for AD, who presented with a collapse episode-attributed to rivastigmine-resulting in a neck of femur fracture. Furthermore, we perform a literature review of the pharmacology of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and how their use in AD may contribute to bradyarrhythmias.
29666099	Rivastigmine	Heart Block	1	1	0	0	0.0	Collapse in the elderly: rivastigmine-induced heart block and a literature review of the pharmacology of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors used in Alzheimer's disease.	Falls resulting in neck of femur fractures are common in the elderly. Often multiple comorbidities can make management and diagnosis of such a polyfactorial condition difficult, particularly with Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Indeed, poorly managed AD may contribute to falls. We present our management of an 87-year-old woman, on rivastigmine for AD, who presented with a collapse episode-attributed to rivastigmine-resulting in a neck of femur fracture. Furthermore, we perform a literature review of the pharmacology of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and how their use in AD may contribute to bradyarrhythmias.
29602711	Ritonavir	Renal Insufficiency, Chronic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate co-administered with lopinavir/ritonavir is strongly associated with tubular damage and chronic kidney disease.	BACKGROUD: With expanding antiretroviral therapy (ART) in a resource-limited setting, the use of second line ART with ritonavir boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) is increasing. However, little is known regarding the renal safety of tenofovir (TDF) co-administered with LPV/r. METHODS: In total 1382 HIV-infected patients were enrolled and data were recorded twice (October 2014 and 2015) in Vietnam. Tubular dysfunction (TD) was defined as urinary beta 2 microglobulin (beta2MG) > 1000 mug/L at both timepoints or increase in beta2MG by > 2000 mug/L. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was defined as creatinine clearance </=60 ml/min or urinary protein/creatinine ratio >/= 0.15 g/gCre at both timepoints. RESULTS: The patients'mean weight and age were 55.9 kg and 38.4 years, respectively, and 41.5% were female. Additionally, 98.2% were on ART, 76.3% were on TDF (mean exposure duration was 35.4 months), and 22.4% had never TDF exposure. TD and CKD were diagnosed in 13% and 8.3% of all patients, respectively. In multivariate analyses, age (OR = 1.057; 95%CI, 1.034-1.081), being female (OR = 0.377; 95%CI, 0.221-0.645), HBsAg positive (OR = 1.812; 95%CI, 1.134-2.894), HCVAb positive (OR = 1.703; 95%CI, 1.100-2.635), TDF exposure (OR = 9.226; 95%CI, 2.847-29.901) and LPV/r exposure (OR = 5.548; 95%CI, 3.313-9.293) were significantly associated with TD. Moreover, age (OR = 1.093; 95%CI, 1.068-1.119), being female (OR = 0.510; 95%CI, 0.295-0.880), weight (OR = 0.909; 95%CI, 0.879-0.939), hypertension (OR = 3.027; 95%CI, 1.714-5.347), TDF exposure (OR = 1.963; 95%CI, 1.027-3.7 53) and LPV/r exposure (OR = 3.122; 95%CI, 1.710-5.699) were significantly associated with CKD. CONCLUSIONS: TDF and LPV/r exposure were strongly associated with TD and CKD, in addition to their known risks. Therefore, attention to renal safety for patients on second line ART is necessary.
29901567	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Basal Ganglia Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association of Antidepressant Use With Drug-Related Extrapyramidal Symptoms: A Pharmacoepidemiological Study.	BACKGROUND: Antidepressants are one of the most prescribed classes of medications. A number of case reports have linked these drugs to extrapyramidal symptoms (EPSs), but no large epidemiologic study to date has examined this association. We sought to quantify the association of EPSs with different antidepressants by undertaking a large pharmacoepidemiologic study. METHODS: A nested case-control study was conducted using a large health claims database in the United States from June 2006 to December 2015. Subjects with a diagnosis of primary Parkinson disease and those who received prescriptions of levodopa, ropinirole, pramipexole, domperidone, metoclopramide, entacapone, benztropine, selegiline, rasagiline, diphenhydramine, trihexyphenidyl, typical and atypical antipsychotics, and tricyclic antidepressants were excluded. Cases were followed to the first billing code for an extrapyramidal event or last date of enrollment in the cohort. For each case, 10 control subjects were matched by follow-up time, calendar time, and age through density-based sampling. Rate ratios were computed using conditional logistic regression adjusting for other covariates. RESULTS: We identified 3,838 subjects with EPSs compared with 38,380 age-matched control subjects. Rate ratios with respect to EPSs were as follows: duloxetine, 5.68 (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.29-7.53); mirtazapine, 3.78 (95% CI, 1.71-8.32); citalopram, 3.47 (95% CI, 2.68-4.50); escitalopram, 3.23 (95% CI, 2.44-4.26); paroxetine, 3.07 (95% CI, 2.15-4.40); sertraline, 2.57 (95% CI, 2.02-3.28); venlafaxine, 2.37 (95% CI, 1.71-3.29); bupropion, 2.31 (95% CI, 1.67-3.21); and fluoxetine, 2.03 (95% CI, 1.48-2.78). CONCLUSIONS: This observational study demonstrates a harmful association between the incidence of Parkinson disease or associated EPSs and use of the antidepressants duloxetine, mirtazapine, citalopram, escitalopram, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine, bupropion, and fluoxetine.
29901567	Venlafaxine Hydrochloride	Basal Ganglia Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association of Antidepressant Use With Drug-Related Extrapyramidal Symptoms: A Pharmacoepidemiological Study.	BACKGROUND: Antidepressants are one of the most prescribed classes of medications. A number of case reports have linked these drugs to extrapyramidal symptoms (EPSs), but no large epidemiologic study to date has examined this association. We sought to quantify the association of EPSs with different antidepressants by undertaking a large pharmacoepidemiologic study. METHODS: A nested case-control study was conducted using a large health claims database in the United States from June 2006 to December 2015. Subjects with a diagnosis of primary Parkinson disease and those who received prescriptions of levodopa, ropinirole, pramipexole, domperidone, metoclopramide, entacapone, benztropine, selegiline, rasagiline, diphenhydramine, trihexyphenidyl, typical and atypical antipsychotics, and tricyclic antidepressants were excluded. Cases were followed to the first billing code for an extrapyramidal event or last date of enrollment in the cohort. For each case, 10 control subjects were matched by follow-up time, calendar time, and age through density-based sampling. Rate ratios were computed using conditional logistic regression adjusting for other covariates. RESULTS: We identified 3,838 subjects with EPSs compared with 38,380 age-matched control subjects. Rate ratios with respect to EPSs were as follows: duloxetine, 5.68 (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.29-7.53); mirtazapine, 3.78 (95% CI, 1.71-8.32); citalopram, 3.47 (95% CI, 2.68-4.50); escitalopram, 3.23 (95% CI, 2.44-4.26); paroxetine, 3.07 (95% CI, 2.15-4.40); sertraline, 2.57 (95% CI, 2.02-3.28); venlafaxine, 2.37 (95% CI, 1.71-3.29); bupropion, 2.31 (95% CI, 1.67-3.21); and fluoxetine, 2.03 (95% CI, 1.48-2.78). CONCLUSIONS: This observational study demonstrates a harmful association between the incidence of Parkinson disease or associated EPSs and use of the antidepressants duloxetine, mirtazapine, citalopram, escitalopram, paroxetine, sertraline, venlafaxine, bupropion, and fluoxetine.
29879312	Leuprolide	Primary Ovarian Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Effect of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog for ovarian function preservation after intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy in systemic lupus erythematosus patients: a retrospective inception cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of leuprolide acetate, a synthetic gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog (GnRH-a) on ovarian function preservation in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients treated with cyclophosphamide (CYC) in clinical practice. METHODS: We enrolled 30 premenopausal female SLE patients who fulfilled the 1997 American College of Rheumatology revised criteria and were treated with intravenous CYC (IVCY) in 2008-2017. We used Kaplan-Meier survival estimates to compare the GnRH-a-treated patients and those not treated with GnRH-a as controls. We performed Cox regression analyses to identify factors associated with premature ovarian failure (POF), incidences of cardiovascular events, strokes and osteoporosis after IVCY therapy. RESULTS: After a mean follow-up of 41 months, POF developed in one of the 16 GnRH-a-treated patients (6%) versus seven of the 14 controls (50%). Significantly improved cumulative ovarian protection over time was observed in the GnRH-a-treated group (P = 0.030). The hazard model analysis showed that treatment with GnRH-a during IVCY therapy is an independent factor associated with POF after IVCY therapy (adjusted hazards ratio = 0.12, 95% CI 0.01-0.67, P = 0.013) but not incidences of cardiovascular events, strokes or osteoporosis. CONCLUSION: The combined use of GnRH-a with IVCY therapy was associated with a significant reduction of POF among premenopausal women with SLE, suggesting that the addition of GnRH-a can be a strategy to prevent POF among premenopausal women with SLE after IVCY therapy.
29705083	Carmine	Hypersensitivity, Immediate	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cochineal dye-induced immediate allergy: Review of Japanese cases and proposed new diagnostic chart.	BACKGROUND: Cochineal dye is used worldwide as a red coloring in foods, drinks, cosmetics, quasi-drugs, and drugs. The main component of the red color is carminic acid (CA). Carmine is an aluminum- or calcium-chelated product of CA. CA and carmine usually contain contaminating proteins, including a 38-kDa protein thought to be the primary allergen. Severe allergic reactions manifest as anaphylaxis. The aim of this study was to review all Japanese reported cases and propose useful diagnostic chart. METHODS: All reported Japanese cases of cochineal dye-induced immediate allergy were reviewed, and newly registered cases were examined by skin prick test (SPT) with cochineal extract (CE) and measurement of CE and carmine-specific serum IgE test. Two-dimensional (2D) western blotting using patient serum was conducted to identify the antigen. RESULTS: Twenty-two Japanese cases have been reported. SPT and the level of specific IgE test indicated that six cases should be newly registered as cochineal dye allergy. All cases were adult females, and all cases except three involved anaphylaxis; 13 cases involved past history of local symptoms associated with cosmetics use. Japanese strawberry juice and fish-meat sausage, and European processed foods (especially macarons made in France) and drinks were recent major sources of allergen. 2D western blotting showed that patient IgE reacted to the 38-kDa protein and other proteins. Serum from healthy controls also weakly reacted with these proteins. CONCLUSIONS: SPT with CE and determination of the level of CE and carmine-specific IgE test are useful methods for the diagnosis of cochineal dye allergy.
29654781	Propofol	Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Effects of propofol on cancer development and chemotherapy: Potential mechanisms.	Propofol (2, 6-diisopropylphenol) is the commonly used intravenous sedative-hypnotic agent. Accumulating evidence shows that propofol affects cancer development by direct and indirect ways. In this review, we will provide an overview of the effects of propofol on cancer development and chemotherapy, with a special focus on the underlying molecular mechanisms involved. Propofol regulates both microRNAs (miRNAs) and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), and serves as a regulator of different signaling pathways including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), and nuclear factor E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) pathways. In addition, propofol modulates host immune function. Possible correlation between propofol and cancer should be verified in further studies, including animal trials and prospective clinical studies.
29434148	Filgrastim	Chondrocalcinosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pseudogout Attack after Pegfilgrastim Administration in Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma.	A 67-year-old man with relapsed anaplastic large cell lymphoma received salvage chemotherapy, and pegfilgrastim was used to prevent febrile neutropenia. On day 18 of chemotherapy, he developed a pseudogout attack. Although the first symptoms improved, another pseudogout attack occurred when he received the second course of chemotherapy and pegfilgrastim. Filgrastim was then used for the third course of chemotherapy, and a pseudogout attack did not occur. The serum granulocyte-stimulating factor (G-CSF) level was extremely elevated only when pegfilgrastim was used, suggesting a relationship between pseudogout and G-CSF. Pseudogout should be recognized as an adverse effect of pegfilgrastim.
29135508	Insulin	Plaque, Amyloid	1	1	0	0	0.0	New Histologic Finding of Amyloid Insulin Bodies at an Insulin Injection Site in a Patient With Diabetes.	Amyloidosis is a heterogeneous group of protein deposition diseases with more than 40 known clinical presentations. Localized amyloidosis occurs when the protein deposits exist in a singular location. Patients with diabetes mellitus who inject insulin at the same site can develop localized insulin-derived amyloidosis (AIns) at the injection site, which can be confused clinically with lipoma, lipohyperplasia, lipoatrophy, and fat necrosis. Histologic examination is performed to confirm localized AIns. We report a case of a patient with a long history of type 2 diabetes who presented with a subcutaneous mass in the abdomen at a preferred insulin injection site. Examination by light microscopy revealed diffuse deposition of eosinophilic material. Two of the tissue fragments contained numerous 30-40 mum spherical bodies within the eosinophilic material. The bodies had dark centers with peripheral eosinophilic material. Polarized sections stained with Congo red showed apple green birefringence, a characteristic of amyloid. Immunohistochemistry was positive for insulin antibodies in the dark spherules and the surrounding matrix. Proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry showed that the Congo red-positive material was insulin. Electron microscopy showed a background matrix consisting of nonbranching protein fibrils measuring 8.8-16.1 nm, consistent with amyloid; the spherules contained dark globular proteins in the center surrounded by nonbranching fibrillary proteins. Because these spherules were positive for insulin by immunohistochemistry and showed amyloid ultrastructurally, we refer to them as amyloid insulin bodies. The identification of AIns, specifically with amyloid insulin bodies, is important for diagnosis and treatment and may further our understanding of amyloidogenesis.
28987492	Uracil	Pemphigoid, Bullous	1	0	0	0		Detection and characterization of IgG, IgE, and IgA autoantibodies in patients with bullous pemphigoid associated with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors.	
28728945	Eugenol	Fish Diseases	0	0	0	0		Clasper flaring in a guitarfish (Zapteryx brevirostris Elasmobranchii, Rhinobatidae) under anesthesia.	
27735167	Cycloserine	Hypokalemia	0	1	0	1		Gitelman-like Syndrome with Kanamycin Toxicity.	A 22 year-old lady with multi-drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis was on Kanamycin, Cycloserine, Ethionamide, Pyrazinamide and Moxifloxacin since more than two months. She presented with muscle cramps and carpopedal spasm. Investigation revealed hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. She also had hypomagnesemia, hypochloremia and hypocalciuria. Serum urea and creatinine levels were normal. Patient was treated with intravenous and oral potassium chloride. Kanamycin was stopped. Metabolic alkalosis and hypokalemia improved gradually over one month. Biochemical parameters were like Gitelman's syndrome but it reversed with stoppage of Kanamycin. Gitelman-like syndrome with Kanamycin toxicity has not been reported in literature previously.
27735167	Kanamycin	Alkalosis	0	1	0	1		Gitelman-like Syndrome with Kanamycin Toxicity.	A 22 year-old lady with multi-drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis was on Kanamycin, Cycloserine, Ethionamide, Pyrazinamide and Moxifloxacin since more than two months. She presented with muscle cramps and carpopedal spasm. Investigation revealed hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. She also had hypomagnesemia, hypochloremia and hypocalciuria. Serum urea and creatinine levels were normal. Patient was treated with intravenous and oral potassium chloride. Kanamycin was stopped. Metabolic alkalosis and hypokalemia improved gradually over one month. Biochemical parameters were like Gitelman's syndrome but it reversed with stoppage of Kanamycin. Gitelman-like syndrome with Kanamycin toxicity has not been reported in literature previously.
27735167	Kanamycin	Hypokalemia	0	1	0	1		Gitelman-like Syndrome with Kanamycin Toxicity.	A 22 year-old lady with multi-drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis was on Kanamycin, Cycloserine, Ethionamide, Pyrazinamide and Moxifloxacin since more than two months. She presented with muscle cramps and carpopedal spasm. Investigation revealed hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. She also had hypomagnesemia, hypochloremia and hypocalciuria. Serum urea and creatinine levels were normal. Patient was treated with intravenous and oral potassium chloride. Kanamycin was stopped. Metabolic alkalosis and hypokalemia improved gradually over one month. Biochemical parameters were like Gitelman's syndrome but it reversed with stoppage of Kanamycin. Gitelman-like syndrome with Kanamycin toxicity has not been reported in literature previously.
30208528	Vanadium	Premature Birth	1	1	0	0	0.0	Urinary vanadium concentration in relation to premature rupture of membranes: A birth cohort study.	Heavy metal exposure has been indicated to be linked with reproductive and developmental toxicity. However, human studies on the association between heavy metal exposure and premature rupture of membranes (PROM) are limited. Thus, we aimed to evaluate the associations between urinary metal concentrations in pregnant women and the risk of PROM. The study was conducted among 7290 pregnant women from an ongoing cohort study in China. Levels of urinary metals were determined using an inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry and adjusted by creatinine concentration (mug/g creatinine). Adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for PROM and preterm PROM were estimated using logistic regression models. Among 12 urinary metals detected, vanadium (V) have shown stable positive associations with PROM and preterm PROM. With one unit increase in natural logarithmically transformed urinary V concentration, adjusted OR of 1.57 (95% CI: 1.47, 1.66) for PROM was observed. Compared with the lowest tertile of urinary V, we also observed positive associations between V levels and PROM (for the medium tertile, adjusted OR = 1.66, 95% CI: 1.34, 2.05; for the highest tertile, adjusted OR = 3.75, 95% CI: 3.09, 4.54). In addition, higher adjusted ORs for preterm PROM were observed (for the highest tertile, adjusted OR = 8.14, 95% CI: 4.55, 14.55). Further stratified analysis suggested the associations were more pronounced among women delivering male infants than those with female infants. Our present epidemiological study indicated that pregnant women exposure to higher level of V might lead to an increased risk of PROM.
30208528	Vanadium	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Urinary vanadium concentration in relation to premature rupture of membranes: A birth cohort study.	Heavy metal exposure has been indicated to be linked with reproductive and developmental toxicity. However, human studies on the association between heavy metal exposure and premature rupture of membranes (PROM) are limited. Thus, we aimed to evaluate the associations between urinary metal concentrations in pregnant women and the risk of PROM. The study was conducted among 7290 pregnant women from an ongoing cohort study in China. Levels of urinary metals were determined using an inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry and adjusted by creatinine concentration (mug/g creatinine). Adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for PROM and preterm PROM were estimated using logistic regression models. Among 12 urinary metals detected, vanadium (V) have shown stable positive associations with PROM and preterm PROM. With one unit increase in natural logarithmically transformed urinary V concentration, adjusted OR of 1.57 (95% CI: 1.47, 1.66) for PROM was observed. Compared with the lowest tertile of urinary V, we also observed positive associations between V levels and PROM (for the medium tertile, adjusted OR = 1.66, 95% CI: 1.34, 2.05; for the highest tertile, adjusted OR = 3.75, 95% CI: 3.09, 4.54). In addition, higher adjusted ORs for preterm PROM were observed (for the highest tertile, adjusted OR = 8.14, 95% CI: 4.55, 14.55). Further stratified analysis suggested the associations were more pronounced among women delivering male infants than those with female infants. Our present epidemiological study indicated that pregnant women exposure to higher level of V might lead to an increased risk of PROM.
29749462	Lithium	Cognitive Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		Immunotherapy by targeting of VGKC complex for seizure control and prevention of cognitive impairment in a mouse model of epilepsy.	Epilepsy is a type of refractory neurologic disorder mental disease, which is associated with cognitive impairments and memory dysfunction. However, the potential mechanisms of epilepsy are not well understood. Previous evidence has identi fi ed the voltage gated potassium channel complex (VGKC) as a target in various cohorts of patients with epilepsy. In the present study, the efficacy of an antibody against VGKC (anti‑VGKC) for the treatment of epilepsy in mice was investigated. A mouse model of lithium‑pilocarpine temporal lobe epilepsy was established and anti‑VGKC treatment was administered for 30 days. Memory impairment, anxiety, visual attention, inhibitory control and neuronal loss were measured in the mouse model of lithium‑pilocarpine temporal lobe epilepsy. The results revealed that epileptic mice treated with anti‑VGKC were able to learn the task and presented attention impairment, even a tendency toward impulsivity and compulsivity. It was also exhibited that anti‑VGKC treatment decreased neuronal loss in structures classically associated with attentional performance in hippocampus. Mice who received Anti‑VGKC treatment had inhibited motor seizures and hippocampal damage as compared with control mice. In conclusion, these results indicated that anti‑VGKC treatment may present benefits for improvements of the condition of motor attention impairment and cognitive competence, which suggests that VGKC may be a potential target for the treatment of epilepsy.
29749462	Pilocarpine	Cognitive Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		Immunotherapy by targeting of VGKC complex for seizure control and prevention of cognitive impairment in a mouse model of epilepsy.	Epilepsy is a type of refractory neurologic disorder mental disease, which is associated with cognitive impairments and memory dysfunction. However, the potential mechanisms of epilepsy are not well understood. Previous evidence has identi fi ed the voltage gated potassium channel complex (VGKC) as a target in various cohorts of patients with epilepsy. In the present study, the efficacy of an antibody against VGKC (anti‑VGKC) for the treatment of epilepsy in mice was investigated. A mouse model of lithium‑pilocarpine temporal lobe epilepsy was established and anti‑VGKC treatment was administered for 30 days. Memory impairment, anxiety, visual attention, inhibitory control and neuronal loss were measured in the mouse model of lithium‑pilocarpine temporal lobe epilepsy. The results revealed that epileptic mice treated with anti‑VGKC were able to learn the task and presented attention impairment, even a tendency toward impulsivity and compulsivity. It was also exhibited that anti‑VGKC treatment decreased neuronal loss in structures classically associated with attentional performance in hippocampus. Mice who received Anti‑VGKC treatment had inhibited motor seizures and hippocampal damage as compared with control mice. In conclusion, these results indicated that anti‑VGKC treatment may present benefits for improvements of the condition of motor attention impairment and cognitive competence, which suggests that VGKC may be a potential target for the treatment of epilepsy.
29567019	Ranibizumab	Thromboembolism	0	0	0	0		[Systemic safety following intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF].	The goal of this manuscript is to assess data suggesting that intravitreal injection of anti-vascular endothelial growth factors (anti-VEGFs) could result in systemic adverse events (AEs). The class-specific systemic AEs should be similar to those encountered in cancer trials. The most frequent AE observed in oncology, hypertension and proteinuria, should thus be the most common expected in ophthalmology, but their severity should be lower because of the much lower doses of anti-VEGFs administered intravitreally. Such AEs have not been frequently reported in ophthalmology trials. In addition, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data describing systemic diffusion of anti-VEGFs should be interpreted with caution because of significant inconsistencies reported. Thus, safety data reported in ophthalmology trials and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic data provide robust evidence that systemic events after intravitreal injection are very unlikely. Additional studies are needed to explore this issue further, as much remains to be understood about local and systemic side effects of anti-VEGFs.
29509526	Phenylephrine	Coronary Vasospasm	1	1	0	0	0.0	Recurrent Coronary Artery Spasm Induced by Vasopressors During Two Operations in the Same Patient Under General Anesthesia.	Variant angina is caused by coronary artery spasm (CAS) with ST-segment elevation. We herein report a case of recurrent CAS during 2 operations in the same patient. An 80-year-old woman was scheduled to undergo tracheostomy, submandibular dissection, left partial maxillectomy, and coronoidectomy. We administered ephedrine and phenylephrine to manage hypotension during general anesthesia. Immediately after the administration of these drugs, the ST segment elevated. We decided to cease the operation and transport the patient to the department of cardiology. Computed tomography angiography revealed pneumomediastinum. The cardiologists considered that the electrocardiography findings had changed secondary to pneumomediastinum. About 6 weeks later, a second operation was scheduled. We administered ephedrine and phenylephrine to manage hypotension during general anesthesia. Immediately after the administration of these drugs, ST-segment elevation occurred. We discontinued use of these drugs, and the ST-segment elevation did not recur. We considered that the cause of the ST-segment elevation was vasopressor-induced CAS because the vasopressors were administered immediately before the occurrence of CAS. Vasopressors such as ephedrine or phenylephrine are frequently used to manage hypotension during general anesthesia. Therefore, anesthesiologists should consider the occurrence of CAS before using vasopressors and know how to manage CAS well.
29355563	Streptozocin	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	0	0	0		Taraxerol as a possible therapeutic agent on memory impairments and Alzheimer's disease: Effects against scopolamine and streptozotocin-induced cognitive dysfunctions.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with cognitive impairment and cholinergic neuronal death, characteristic of the effect of time on biochemical neuronal function. The use of medicinal plants as an alternative form of prevention, or even as a possible treatment of AD, is therefore interesting areas of research, since the standard drugs have many side effects. Taraxerol (TRX) is a triterpene that has been isolated from several plant species, and its various pharmacological properties have already been identified, such the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition activity in vitro. There is a lack of information in literature that confirms the effect of TRX in an animal AD-like model. Seeking to fill this gap in the literature, in the present work we assessed the effect of TRX on AChE activity in the animals' encephalon and hippocampus. We also investigated the effect of TRX (1.77 microM/side, 0.5 muL) isolated from leaves of Eugenia umbelliflora Berg. on aversive memory impairments induced by scopolamine (2 microg/side, 0.5 microL) infused into rat hippocampus, and the effect of TRX (0.89 and 1.77 microM/side, 0.5 muL) on aversive memory impairments induced by streptozotocin (STZ) (2.5 mg/mL, 2.0 microL) infused i.c.v. into mice, using the step-down inhibitory avoidance task. We found that TRX significantly inhibited AChE activity in the animal's hippocampus. Furthermore, TRX significantly improved scopolamine and STZ-induced memory impairment. Taking together, these results confirms its AChE activity inhibition in animals and indicate that TRX has anti-amnesic activity that may hold significant therapeutic value in alleviating certain memory impairments observed in AD.
28192572	Biotin	Graves Disease	1	0	0	0		Biotin-Induced Biochemical Graves Disease: A Teachable Moment.	
30112725	Sumatriptan	Hyperacusis	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of DFN-11 (sumatriptan injection, 3 mg) in adults with episodic migraine: an 8-week open-label extension study.	BACKGROUND: DFN-11, a 3 mg sumatriptan subcutaneous (SC) autoinjector for acute treatment of migraine, has not been assessed previously in multiple attacks. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of DFN-11 in the acute treatment of multiple migraine attacks. METHODS: This was an 8-week open-label extension of multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled US study. Subjects averaging 2 to 6 episodic migraine attacks per month were randomized to DFN-11 or placebo to treat a single attack of moderate-to-severe intensity and then entered the extension study to assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of DFN-11 in multiple attacks of any pain intensity. RESULTS: Overall, 234 subjects enrolled in the open-label period, and 29 (12.4%) discontinued early. A total of 848 migraine episodes were treated with 1042 doses of open-label DFN-11 and subjects treated a mean (SD) of 3.9 (2.3) attacks. At 2 h postdose in attacks 1 (N = 216), 2 (N = 186), 3 (N = 142) and 4 (N = 110), respectively, pain freedom rates were 57.6%, 64.6%, 61.6%, and 66.3%; pain relief rates were 83.4%, 88.4%, 84.1%, and 81.7%; most bothersome symptom (MBS)-free rates were 69.0%, 76.5%, 77.7%, and 74.7%; nausea-free rates were 78.1%, 84.6%, 86.5%, and 85.7%; photophobia-free rates were 75.3%, 76.4%, 72.3%, and 77.5%; and phonophobia-free rates were 75.2%, 77.5%, 73.6%, and 76.0%. Overall, 40.6% (89/219) of subjects reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), the most common of which were associated with the injection site: swelling (12.8%), pain (11.4%), irritation (6.4%), and bruising (6.4%). Most subjects (65.2%, 58/89) had mild TEAEs; severe TEAEs were reported by 1 subject (treatment-related jaw tightness). Five subjects (2.1%) discontinued due to adverse events, which included mild throat tightness (n = 2), moderate hernia pain (n = 1), moderate hypersensitivity (n = 1), and 1 subject with mild nausea and moderate injection site swelling. There were no serious TEAEs and no new or unexpected safety findings. CONCLUSION: DFN-11 was effective, tolerable, and safe in the acute treatment of 4 migraine attacks over 8 weeks, with consistent responses on pain and associated symptoms. Most TEAEs were mild, with a very low incidence of triptan-related TEAEs. DFN-11 is potentially an effective and safe alternative for the acute treatment of migraine. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02569853 . Registered 07 October 2015.
30112725	Sumatriptan	Photophobia	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of DFN-11 (sumatriptan injection, 3 mg) in adults with episodic migraine: an 8-week open-label extension study.	BACKGROUND: DFN-11, a 3 mg sumatriptan subcutaneous (SC) autoinjector for acute treatment of migraine, has not been assessed previously in multiple attacks. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of DFN-11 in the acute treatment of multiple migraine attacks. METHODS: This was an 8-week open-label extension of multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled US study. Subjects averaging 2 to 6 episodic migraine attacks per month were randomized to DFN-11 or placebo to treat a single attack of moderate-to-severe intensity and then entered the extension study to assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of DFN-11 in multiple attacks of any pain intensity. RESULTS: Overall, 234 subjects enrolled in the open-label period, and 29 (12.4%) discontinued early. A total of 848 migraine episodes were treated with 1042 doses of open-label DFN-11 and subjects treated a mean (SD) of 3.9 (2.3) attacks. At 2 h postdose in attacks 1 (N = 216), 2 (N = 186), 3 (N = 142) and 4 (N = 110), respectively, pain freedom rates were 57.6%, 64.6%, 61.6%, and 66.3%; pain relief rates were 83.4%, 88.4%, 84.1%, and 81.7%; most bothersome symptom (MBS)-free rates were 69.0%, 76.5%, 77.7%, and 74.7%; nausea-free rates were 78.1%, 84.6%, 86.5%, and 85.7%; photophobia-free rates were 75.3%, 76.4%, 72.3%, and 77.5%; and phonophobia-free rates were 75.2%, 77.5%, 73.6%, and 76.0%. Overall, 40.6% (89/219) of subjects reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE), the most common of which were associated with the injection site: swelling (12.8%), pain (11.4%), irritation (6.4%), and bruising (6.4%). Most subjects (65.2%, 58/89) had mild TEAEs; severe TEAEs were reported by 1 subject (treatment-related jaw tightness). Five subjects (2.1%) discontinued due to adverse events, which included mild throat tightness (n = 2), moderate hernia pain (n = 1), moderate hypersensitivity (n = 1), and 1 subject with mild nausea and moderate injection site swelling. There were no serious TEAEs and no new or unexpected safety findings. CONCLUSION: DFN-11 was effective, tolerable, and safe in the acute treatment of 4 migraine attacks over 8 weeks, with consistent responses on pain and associated symptoms. Most TEAEs were mild, with a very low incidence of triptan-related TEAEs. DFN-11 is potentially an effective and safe alternative for the acute treatment of migraine. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02569853 . Registered 07 October 2015.
29966612	Misoprostol	Peptic Ulcer Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Misoprostol Heals Small Bowel Ulcers in Aspirin Users With Small Bowel Bleeding.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: There is no effective treatment for aspirin-induced small bowel ulcer bleeding. We performed a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial to determine whether misoprostol can heal small bowel ulcers in patients with small bowel bleeding who require continuous aspirin therapy. METHODS: We performed a prospective study of 84 aspirin users with small bowel bleeding who required continued aspirin therapy in Hong Kong and Japan. Patients with small bowel ulcers or multiple erosions, detected by capsule endoscopy, were randomly assigned to groups that received either misoprostol (200 mug, 4 times daily; n = 42) or placebo (n = 42) for 8 weeks. All patients continued taking aspirin (100 mg, once daily). The primary end point was complete ulcer healing at follow-up capsule endoscopy. Secondary end points included changes in hemoglobin level and number of ulcer/erosions from baseline. RESULTS: Complete healing of small bowel ulcers was observed in 12 patients in the misoprostol group (28.6%; 95% CI, 14.9%-42.2%) and 4 patients in the placebo group (9.5%; 95% CI, 0.6%-18.4%), for a difference in proportion of 19.0% (95% CI, 2.8%-35.3%; P = .026). The misoprostol group had a significantly greater mean increase in hemoglobin than the placebo group (mean difference, 0.70 mg/dL; 95% CI, 0.05-1.36; P = .035). The reduction in medium number of ulcers or erosions was significantly greater in the misoprostol group (from 6.5 [range, 1-85] to 2 [range, 0-25]) than in the placebo group (from 7 [range, 1-29] to 4 [range, 0-19] (P = .005). CONCLUSIONS: In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial, we found misoprostol to be superior to placebo in promoting healing of small bowel ulcers among aspirin users complicated by small bowel ulcer bleeding who require continuous aspirin therapy. However, use of misoprostol alone would provide only limited protection against aspirin on the small bowel. ClinicalTrials.gov ID NCT01998776.
29656844	Testosterone	Gallstones	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between cholesterol gallstones and testosterone replacement therapy in a patient with primary hypogonadism.	A 16-year-old boy had a past medical history of primary hypogonadism, due to bilateral anorchia. He presented with gallstones located in the gallbladder and a mild dilatation of the intrahepatic biliary tree. The histology study reported cholesterol gallstones. The patient had been treated with testosterone replacement therapy since infancy. We suggest a possible correlation between testosterone replacement therapy and the presence of cholesterol gallstones.
29489563	Sildenafil Citrate	Retinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	SILDENAFIL CITRATE INDUCED RETINAL TOXICITY-ELECTRORETINOGRAM, OPTICAL COHERENCE TOMOGRAPHY, AND ADAPTIVE OPTICS FINDINGS.	BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: To report a case of persistent retinal toxicity associated with a high dose of sildenafil citrate intake. METHODS: Single retrospective case report. RESULTS: A 31-year-old white man with no medical history presented with complaints of bilateral multicolored photopsias and erythropsia (red-tinted vision), shortly after taking sildenafil citrate-purchased through the internet. Patient was found to have cone photoreceptor damage, demonstrated using electroretinogram, optical coherence tomography, and adaptive optics imaging. The patient's symptoms and the photoreceptor structural changes persisted for several months. CONCLUSION: Sildenafil citrate is a widely used erectile dysfunction medication that is typically associated with transient visual symptoms in normal dosage. At high dosage, sildenafil citrate can lead to persistent retinal toxicity in certain individuals.
29392569	Propylene Glycol	Renal Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Assessing Propylene Glycol Toxicity in Alcohol Withdrawal Patients Receiving Intravenous Benzodiazepines: A One-Compartment Pharmacokinetic Model.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: While some case reports indicate that high doses of propylene glycol (PG) may result in metabolic acidosis, there has been no large-scale study that evaluated the risk of metabolic acidosis in patients receiving PG-containing benzodiazepines for acute alcohol withdrawal. This study was undertaken to evaluate the potential toxicity of PG in patients with acute alcohol withdrawal treated with intermittent intravenous bolus doses of diazepam and/or lorazepam. METHODS: This is a retrospective case study using data collected from 18 randomly selected patients receiving one or both of these medications per a modified Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol (CIWA) Class 3 protocol. Plasma levels of PG were estimated using a one-compartment pharmacokinetic model. RESULTS: Only two patients had an elevated anion gap compared to their baseline value with one also experiencing a significant increase in serum creatinine. No increases in serum osmolarity were noted. Analysis showed that the benzodiazepine dose received was a good predictor of the estimated PG concentration (r = 0.6), but was poorly correlated with the anion gap. No significant correlation was found with the creatinine clearance or serum creatinine. Patients receiving several daily doses were at higher risk of developing an anion gap (r = 0.33), but the estimated maximum PG concentration did not correlate with the anion gap or serum concentration. CONCLUSION: It does not appear that intermittent bolus administration of intravenous benzodiazepines for alcohol withdrawal influenced renal function or anion gap regardless of number of administered doses, amount of PG received, or the estimated PG concentration.
29153932	Desvenlafaxine Succinate	Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy	1	0	0	0		Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy and Intraoperative Cardiac Arrest: Is Desvenlafaxine a Contributing Factor?	
29054936	Ipilimumab	Splenic Diseases	1	0	0	0		A case of autosplenectomy associated with T-cell checkpoint inhibitor treatment.	
28921303	Trastuzumab	Alopecia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Registry study to assess hair loss prevention with the Penguin Cold Cap in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.	PURPOSE: Chemotherapy-induced alopecia is a distressing side effect of cancer treatment. The aim of this registry study was to assess efficacy and tolerability of scalp hypothermia using Penguin Cold Caps (Penguin) in breast cancer patients. METHODS: Hair loss was assessed by patients using a 100-point Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and by physicians using the 5-point Dean Scale at baseline, every 3-4 weeks during chemotherapy, and at least 1 month after completion of chemotherapy. The primary efficacy endpoint for success was defined as </=50% hair loss by patient report (VAS) at follow-up (FUP). Tolerability and satisfaction were assessed by patient report. RESULTS: 103 patients enrolled between 7/2010 and 6/2015; 97 are evaluable for the primary endpoint. Chemotherapy included docetaxel/cyclophosphamide (TC; n = 50) for 4-6 cycles every 3 weeks, weekly paclitaxel for 12 weeks then doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (P/AC; n = 23) for 4 cycles every 2-3 weeks, AC then paclitaxel (AC/P; n = 10), docetaxel/carboplatin +/- trastuzumab (TCH; n = 4) for 4-6 cycles every 3 weeks. Overall, 61% of patients successfully prevented CIA; impact was regimen specific: TCH 100%, TC x 4 84%, TC x 5-6 50%, P/AC 43%, AC/P 20%. The most common toxicity was headache, reported by 78.5% of patients with mean pain level 37/100. Satisfaction among those who completed scalp cooling (SC) and FUP ranged from 74 to 100%. All patients who completed SC/FUP recommended Penguin. CONCLUSIONS: Scalp hypothermia with Penguin is effective in reducing alopecia, particularly for non-anthracycline-based shorter regimens. Penguin was well tolerated and viewed favorably by most patients.
28618984	Cholecalciferol	Hypoglycemia	0	0	0	0		Glycemic Variability and Insulin Needs in Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Supplemented with Vitamin D: A Pilot Study Using Continuous Glucose Monitoring System.	BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggest that glycemic variability could influence the risk of complications in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus (T1DM). There are no data about the action of Vitamin D (VD) on glycemic variability. Our pilot study aims to evaluate glycemic variability and insulin needs in patients with T1DM supplemented with VD. METHODS: 22 Patients received doses of 4000 and 10000 IU/day of cholecalciferol for 12 weeks, according to the patient's baseline VD levels and underwent continuous glucose monitoring system. RESULTS: Correlations were found between percentage variation (Delta) of glycemia standard deviation (DeltaSDG), calculated using continuous glucose monitoring, with Delta of basal (r = 0.6; p <0.01) and total insulin dose (r = 0.6; p <0.01). Correlations between VD status after supplementation and Delta of prandial (r = 0.5; p <0.05) and total insulin dose (r = 0.4; p <0.05) were found, suggesting that the dose of insulin needed by patients is lower when VD status is better. We divided patients in two subgroups: SDG improved (subgroup 1; N = 12 (55%)) and SDG worsened (subgroup 2; N = 10 (45%)). Group 1, compared to subgroup 2, required a lower insulin dose (Deltabasal insulin dose = -8.0 vs. 6.3%; p <0.05) and had a lower frequency of hypoglycemia (27% vs. 64%, hypoglycemias/days evaluated; p <0.01). CONCLUSION: Our study suggests a relation between VD supplementation, improved glycemic variability, lower insulin needs and lower frequency of hypoglycemia in patients with T1DM.
28343159	Isoniazid	Nail Diseases	1	0	0	0		Half-and-half nails in a patient on antituberculosis treatment.	
28261741	Phentermine	Coronary Vasospasm	1	0	0	0		Panbesy-induced coronary vasospasm.	
28195943	Flecainide	Ataxia	1	0	0	0		Confused and Too Long: Neurotoxicity and Cardiac Toxicity of Flecainide.	
28195943	Flecainide	Atrioventricular Block	1	0	0	0		Confused and Too Long: Neurotoxicity and Cardiac Toxicity of Flecainide.	
29667796	Isotretinoin	Bipolar Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	Isotretinoin: the ups are just as troubling as the downs.	"INTRODUCTION: Isotretinoin, previously marketed as Accutane(R), is an oral retinoid medication that is used to treat acne and other cutaneous disorders. Although the data is conflicting, previous reports suggest a causal relationship between isotretinoin and depression. When reviewing these previous reports, many patients who were diagnosed as ""depressed"" did not undergo a thorough psychiatric evaluation and/or were not diagnosed according to the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). These patients reported agitation, irritability, sleep disturbances, and aggression. We hypothesize that some patients previously reported as ""depressed"" may have been ""misdiagnosed"" and were actually experiencing symptoms of mania, mixed mood (depression and mania at the same time), or psychosis. EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: An Ovid Medline and PubMed literature search of English language articles was performed using the keywords ""isotretinoin"", ""retinoids"", ""mood"", ""psychiatric"", ""depression"", ""elevation"", ""bipolar"", and ""psychosis"". Eleven case reports, three case series, three retrospective chart reviews, five drug registries, and two prospective studies were reviewed. EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: We found that many of the patients labeled as ""depressed"", had signs of activation, agitation, elevated mood, and psychosis. We believe that many of these patients were most likely having manic or mixed mood episodes. These symptoms appeared to be more prevalent in patients with a personal or family history of mental illness. CONCLUSIONS: Isotretinoin may cause mood instability in both directions - depression and mania - especially in a predisposed population. With this in mind, we urge clinicians prescribing isotretinoin to focus on all psychiatric symptoms (not just depression) including mania, mixed mood, and psychosis, paying particular attention to individuals who have a personal or family history of psychiatric disease."
29081218	Aspirin	Urologic Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Effects of Aspirin, Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs, Statin, and COX2 Inhibitor on the Developments of Urological Malignancies: A Population-Based Study with 10-Year Follow-up Data in Korea.	PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), statin, and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor on the development of kidney, prostate, and urothelial cancers by analyzing the Korean National Health Insurance Service-National Sample Cohort (NHIS-NSC) database. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among a representative sample cohort of 1,025,340 participants in NHIS-NSC database in 2002, we extracted data of 799,850 individuals who visited the hospital more than once, and finally included 321,122 individuals aged 40 and older. Following a 1-year washout period between 2002 and 2003, we analyzed 143,870 (male), 320,861 and 320,613 individuals for evaluating the risk of prostate cancer, kidney cancer and urothelial cancer developments, respectively, during 10-year follow-up periods between 2004 and 2013. The medication group consisted of patients prescribed these drugs more than 60% of the time in 2003. To adjustfor various parameters of the patients, a multivariate Cox regression model was adopted. RESULTS: During 10-year follow-up periods between 2004 and 2013, 9,627 (6.7%), 1,107 (0.4%), and 2,121 (0.7%) patients were diagnosed with prostate cancer, kidney cancer, and urothelial cancer, respectively. Notably, multivariate analyses revealed that NSAIDs significantly increased the risk of prostate cancer (hazard ratio [HR], 1.35). Also, it was found that aspirin (HR, 1.28) and statin (HR, 1.55) elevated the risk of kidney cancer. No drugs were associated with the risk of urothelial cancer. CONCLUSION: In sum, our study provides the valuable information for the impact of aspirin, NSAID, statin, and COX-2 inhibitor on the risk of prostate, kidney, and urothelial cancer development and its survival outcomes.
28488051	Fluorouracil	Alveolar Bone Loss	0	0	0	0		Low-level laser and antimicrobial photodynamic therapy on experimental periodontitis in rats submitted to chemotherapy by 5-fluorouracil.	PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) and antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) as adjuvant to mechanical treatment of experimental periodontitis (EP) in adult rats submitted to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy. METHODS: EP was induced through ligature around the left mandibular first molar for 7 days. The ligature was removed and the animals separated into groups: EP, no treatment; 5FU, systemic administration of 5-FU (80 and 40 mg/kg); 5FU/scaling and root planing (SRP), systemic application of 5-FU and SRP; 5FU/SRP/LLLT, systemic application of 5-FU, SRP, and LLLT (660 nm, 0.035 W; 29.4 J/cm(2)); and 5FU/SRP/aPDT, systemic application of 5-FU, SRP, and aPDT (methylene blue irrigation and LLLT). The animals were euthanized 7, 15, and 30 days after treatments. Histological sections from mandibles were processed for histomorphometric and immunohistochemical analysis (TRAP, RANKL, OPG, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-10). The alveolar bone loss (BL) area in the furcation region of the mandibular first molar was analyzed histometrically. RESULTS: There was less bone loss in 5FU/SRP/aPDT compared with 5FU at 7 days (p < 0.05). The immunohistochemical analysis showed no significant difference for TRAP and osteoprotegerin, but lower RANKL immunolabeling was observed in the 5FU/SRP/LLLT and 5FU/SRP/aPDT groups compared with the 5FU group at 15 days. There was lower TNF-alpha and IL-6 immunolabeling in the 5FU/SRP/LLLT and 5FU/SRP/aPDT groups and higher IL-10 immunolabeling in 5FU/SRP/aPDT at 30 days. CONCLUSION: LLLT and aPDT adjuvant to SRP minimized the effects of 5-FU on periodontal disease. Furthermore, aPDT promoted greater benefits in bone loss control and inflammatory response.
28488051	Fluorouracil	Periodontitis	0	0	0	0		Low-level laser and antimicrobial photodynamic therapy on experimental periodontitis in rats submitted to chemotherapy by 5-fluorouracil.	PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) and antimicrobial photodynamic therapy (aPDT) as adjuvant to mechanical treatment of experimental periodontitis (EP) in adult rats submitted to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy. METHODS: EP was induced through ligature around the left mandibular first molar for 7 days. The ligature was removed and the animals separated into groups: EP, no treatment; 5FU, systemic administration of 5-FU (80 and 40 mg/kg); 5FU/scaling and root planing (SRP), systemic application of 5-FU and SRP; 5FU/SRP/LLLT, systemic application of 5-FU, SRP, and LLLT (660 nm, 0.035 W; 29.4 J/cm(2)); and 5FU/SRP/aPDT, systemic application of 5-FU, SRP, and aPDT (methylene blue irrigation and LLLT). The animals were euthanized 7, 15, and 30 days after treatments. Histological sections from mandibles were processed for histomorphometric and immunohistochemical analysis (TRAP, RANKL, OPG, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-10). The alveolar bone loss (BL) area in the furcation region of the mandibular first molar was analyzed histometrically. RESULTS: There was less bone loss in 5FU/SRP/aPDT compared with 5FU at 7 days (p < 0.05). The immunohistochemical analysis showed no significant difference for TRAP and osteoprotegerin, but lower RANKL immunolabeling was observed in the 5FU/SRP/LLLT and 5FU/SRP/aPDT groups compared with the 5FU group at 15 days. There was lower TNF-alpha and IL-6 immunolabeling in the 5FU/SRP/LLLT and 5FU/SRP/aPDT groups and higher IL-10 immunolabeling in 5FU/SRP/aPDT at 30 days. CONCLUSION: LLLT and aPDT adjuvant to SRP minimized the effects of 5-FU on periodontal disease. Furthermore, aPDT promoted greater benefits in bone loss control and inflammatory response.
29556967	Codeine	Endocarditis	1	1	1	1	1.0	"Lethal endomyocarditis caused by chronic ""Krokodil"" intoxication."	Krokodil is a home-made opioid drug obtained by synthesizing desomorphine from codeine and combining it with other low-cost additives. Initially introduced in the former Soviet countries, it was then imported to Western Europe as a heroin substitute. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an Italian case of lethal krokodil abuse, that occurred in a 39-year-old man, who died suddenly after transportation to the Emergency Department (ED) for hyperthermia associated with sweating, dyspnoea and tachycardia. Post-mortem examination revealed extensive necrotic ulcerative lesions on the forearms, and autopsy showed a hypertrophic heart with ample endocardial vegetation on the aortic valve and patency of the foramen ovale. Histopathological examination of the heart showed ulcero-vegetative lesions of the aortic valve with an abscess on the annulus and extension to the periaortic adipose tissue, as well as diffuse myocardial interstitial inflammatory neutrophilic infiltrates. Toxicological analysis demonstrated a desomorphine metabolite in urine. On the basis of all these findings the cause of death was ruled to be congestive heart failure caused by endocarditis and myocarditis, correlated with chronic abuse of krokodil.
29556967	Codeine	Heart Failure	1	1	1	1	1.0	"Lethal endomyocarditis caused by chronic ""Krokodil"" intoxication."	Krokodil is a home-made opioid drug obtained by synthesizing desomorphine from codeine and combining it with other low-cost additives. Initially introduced in the former Soviet countries, it was then imported to Western Europe as a heroin substitute. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an Italian case of lethal krokodil abuse, that occurred in a 39-year-old man, who died suddenly after transportation to the Emergency Department (ED) for hyperthermia associated with sweating, dyspnoea and tachycardia. Post-mortem examination revealed extensive necrotic ulcerative lesions on the forearms, and autopsy showed a hypertrophic heart with ample endocardial vegetation on the aortic valve and patency of the foramen ovale. Histopathological examination of the heart showed ulcero-vegetative lesions of the aortic valve with an abscess on the annulus and extension to the periaortic adipose tissue, as well as diffuse myocardial interstitial inflammatory neutrophilic infiltrates. Toxicological analysis demonstrated a desomorphine metabolite in urine. On the basis of all these findings the cause of death was ruled to be congestive heart failure caused by endocarditis and myocarditis, correlated with chronic abuse of krokodil.
29556967	Codeine	Skin Ulcer	1	1	1	1	1.0	"Lethal endomyocarditis caused by chronic ""Krokodil"" intoxication."	Krokodil is a home-made opioid drug obtained by synthesizing desomorphine from codeine and combining it with other low-cost additives. Initially introduced in the former Soviet countries, it was then imported to Western Europe as a heroin substitute. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an Italian case of lethal krokodil abuse, that occurred in a 39-year-old man, who died suddenly after transportation to the Emergency Department (ED) for hyperthermia associated with sweating, dyspnoea and tachycardia. Post-mortem examination revealed extensive necrotic ulcerative lesions on the forearms, and autopsy showed a hypertrophic heart with ample endocardial vegetation on the aortic valve and patency of the foramen ovale. Histopathological examination of the heart showed ulcero-vegetative lesions of the aortic valve with an abscess on the annulus and extension to the periaortic adipose tissue, as well as diffuse myocardial interstitial inflammatory neutrophilic infiltrates. Toxicological analysis demonstrated a desomorphine metabolite in urine. On the basis of all these findings the cause of death was ruled to be congestive heart failure caused by endocarditis and myocarditis, correlated with chronic abuse of krokodil.
29294216	Sevelamer	Hypercalcemia	0	0	0	0		A systematic review on the efficacy and safety of PA21 versus sevelamer in dialysis patients.	AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of PA21 versus sevelamer in dialysis patients. METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase, Science Citation Index, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Clinical Trial Registries for randomized controlled trials comparing PA21 and sevelamer in dialysis patients. RESULTS: Four studies were included. Compared with sevelamer group, PA21 needed fewer mean daily number of tablets (WMD, - 7.97 pill; 95% CI, - 11.28 to - 4.65, p < 0.00001), developed fewer all adverse events (RR = 1.05; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.11, p = 0.05), and developed fewer gastrointestinal adverse events (RR = 1.32; 95% CI, 1.15 to 1.53, p = 0.0001). There was no significant difference in serum phosphorus between two groups (WMD, - 0.07 mmol/L; 95% CI, - 0.15 to 0.02, p = 0.12). As for serum calcium, there was also no significant difference between two groups (WMD, 0.27 mmol/L; 95% CI, - 0.63 to 1.17, p = 0.55). CONCLUSION: PA21 can effectively control serum phosphorus with lower pill burden and less side effects than sevelamer. PA21 might be another valuable choice for dialysis patients with hyperphosphatemia when patients are unable to tolerate sevelamer.
29108104	Bevacizumab	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Renal function after intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.	The present study aimed to determine whether intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is associated with deterioration of renal function, as seen with systemic administration, in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Estimated glomerular filtration rates before and after 160 intravitreal injections of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (aflibercept, bevacizumab or ranibizumab) were compared in 69 patients with diabetes and with a baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) . We also determined the incidence of acute kidney injury. The data showed no significant difference in the estimated glomerular filtration rate before and after vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor administration in all patients and in patient subgroups based on each inhibitor. Furthermore, no episodes of acute kidney injury occurred. In conclusion, intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is unlikely to be associated with a deterioration of renal function in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
29108104	Bevacizumab	Diabetes Complications	1	0	0	0		Renal function after intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.	The present study aimed to determine whether intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is associated with deterioration of renal function, as seen with systemic administration, in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Estimated glomerular filtration rates before and after 160 intravitreal injections of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (aflibercept, bevacizumab or ranibizumab) were compared in 69 patients with diabetes and with a baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) . We also determined the incidence of acute kidney injury. The data showed no significant difference in the estimated glomerular filtration rate before and after vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor administration in all patients and in patient subgroups based on each inhibitor. Furthermore, no episodes of acute kidney injury occurred. In conclusion, intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is unlikely to be associated with a deterioration of renal function in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
29108104	Ranibizumab	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Renal function after intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.	The present study aimed to determine whether intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is associated with deterioration of renal function, as seen with systemic administration, in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Estimated glomerular filtration rates before and after 160 intravitreal injections of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (aflibercept, bevacizumab or ranibizumab) were compared in 69 patients with diabetes and with a baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) . We also determined the incidence of acute kidney injury. The data showed no significant difference in the estimated glomerular filtration rate before and after vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor administration in all patients and in patient subgroups based on each inhibitor. Furthermore, no episodes of acute kidney injury occurred. In conclusion, intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is unlikely to be associated with a deterioration of renal function in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
29108104	Ranibizumab	Diabetes Complications	1	0	0	0		Renal function after intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.	The present study aimed to determine whether intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is associated with deterioration of renal function, as seen with systemic administration, in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Estimated glomerular filtration rates before and after 160 intravitreal injections of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (aflibercept, bevacizumab or ranibizumab) were compared in 69 patients with diabetes and with a baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) . We also determined the incidence of acute kidney injury. The data showed no significant difference in the estimated glomerular filtration rate before and after vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor administration in all patients and in patient subgroups based on each inhibitor. Furthermore, no episodes of acute kidney injury occurred. In conclusion, intravitreal administration of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors is unlikely to be associated with a deterioration of renal function in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease.
28980064	Ritonavir	Pruritus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Anti-HCV treatment with ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir +/- dasabuvir is associated with increased bile acid levels and pruritus.	BACKGROUND: Direct acting antiviral (DAA)-based treatment with ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir +/- dasabuvir (OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV) is highly effective in HCV genotype 1 or 4 infection and well-tolerated with only few side effects. However, pruritus has been observed in several trials in up to 20% of patients and seems to be unique for this DAA combination. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this preliminary study was to investigate the effect of OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV on bile acid levels and to correlate them to the emergence of pruritus during treatment. METHODS: Twenty patients with chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 or 4 were treated for 12 or 24 weeks with OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV with or without ribavirin. Side effects including pruritus were assessed every 4 weeks during treatment or on demand. Blood was collected in fasting state at baseline and at treatment week 4 for determination of bile acid concentrations by high-resolution mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Pruritus developed in 5 out of 20 patients during the first 4 weeks of DAA treatment. Pruritus was self-limiting during DAA treatment in 4 patients while one patient required cholestyramine treatment and responded well. Total bile acid levels increased approximately 4‑fold by treatment week 4. CONCLUSIONS: Pruritus observed during OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV treatment of chronic hepatitis C is associated with increased on-treatment serum bile acid levels, possibly due to ritonavir-induced alterations of bile acid transport.
28980064	Uracil	Pruritus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Anti-HCV treatment with ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir +/- dasabuvir is associated with increased bile acid levels and pruritus.	BACKGROUND: Direct acting antiviral (DAA)-based treatment with ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir +/- dasabuvir (OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV) is highly effective in HCV genotype 1 or 4 infection and well-tolerated with only few side effects. However, pruritus has been observed in several trials in up to 20% of patients and seems to be unique for this DAA combination. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this preliminary study was to investigate the effect of OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV on bile acid levels and to correlate them to the emergence of pruritus during treatment. METHODS: Twenty patients with chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 or 4 were treated for 12 or 24 weeks with OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV with or without ribavirin. Side effects including pruritus were assessed every 4 weeks during treatment or on demand. Blood was collected in fasting state at baseline and at treatment week 4 for determination of bile acid concentrations by high-resolution mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Pruritus developed in 5 out of 20 patients during the first 4 weeks of DAA treatment. Pruritus was self-limiting during DAA treatment in 4 patients while one patient required cholestyramine treatment and responded well. Total bile acid levels increased approximately 4‑fold by treatment week 4. CONCLUSIONS: Pruritus observed during OBV/PTV/r +/- DSV treatment of chronic hepatitis C is associated with increased on-treatment serum bile acid levels, possibly due to ritonavir-induced alterations of bile acid transport.
28867534	Vitamin K	Leg Ulcer	1	1	0	1	1.0	[Vitamin K antagonist-induced necrotic leg ulcer, without protein C and S deficiencies].	INTRODUCTION: Patients treated by vitamin K antagonists (VKA) represent 1% of the population in France. We report a case of atypical necrotic leg ulcers induced by VKA. CASE REPORT: A 84-year-old woman was referred to our dermatology department because of necrotic leg ulcers that developed for the past 5weeks, and appeared spontaneously after the introduction of a VKA, fluindione. The etiological assessment was non contributive, in particular the search for thrombophilic factors. The skin biopsy found an aspect compatible with pyoderma gangrenosum. The outcome was favorable after discontinuing the fluindione and the switch to apixaban. A complete healing was obtained in 5months. CONCLUSION: We report an original case of necrotic leg ulcers induced by VKA without deficit of protein C or S, with a pyoderma like histology. Reported cases of ulcers induced by VKA are uncommon and the physiopathology is not well known. The involvement of VKA should be evoked in case of necrotic leg ulcer without specific etiology found.
28169851	Ketotifen	Facial Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Periorbital Allergic Contact Dermatitis Due to Ketotifen.	
27806175	Sirolimus	Leg Ulcer	1	0	0	0		Sirolimus-Associated Rapid Progression of Leg Ulcers in a Renal Transplant Recipient.	
30001248	Pregabalin	Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sexual Dysfunctions Induced by Pregabalin.	OBJECTIVES: Pregabalin (PGB) is a gabapentinoid (ie, GABA analog), which has been Food and Drug Administration-approved for treatment of partial epilepsy in adults and neuropathic pain. It also has off-label uses for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorders, fibromyalgia, and tension headache and prevention of migraine. Few cases were reported with sexual dysfunctions (SDs) as adverse effects of PGB and gabapentin, and the majority were dose related (>/=900 mg/d for gabapentin). This study aimed to determine the frequency and types of SDs induced by PGB and the temporal relation to its use. METHODS: We presented case series of patients (n = 75) treated with PGB for different indications (sciatica, atypical facial pain, chronic tension headache, transformed migraine, fibromyalgia, and generalized anxiety disorder and developed different aspects of SDs). RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: In this case series, SDs were noticed with PGB in 41.33% (n = 31) (men, 13 [50%]; women, 18 [36.73%]), which included erectile dysfunction (n = 16, 51.61%), anorgasmia (n = 10, 32.26%), and loss of libido (n = 11, 35.48%). Sexual dysfunctions occurred within weeks after the use of PGB and were not dose related. They occurred with low therapeutic PGB doses (50-100 mg/d). Discontinuation of PGB resulted in improvement of SDs within weeks. To conclude, SDs are not infrequent adverse effects of PGB therapy. Pregabalin can induce erectile dysfunction, loss of libido, and anorgasmia. Sexual dysfunctions induced by PGB are not dose related. It is important for the clinician to acknowledge and encourage discussion regarding sexual function with patients and inquire about the impact of PGB on sexual function.
30001248	Pregabalin	Sexual Dysfunctions, Psychological	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sexual Dysfunctions Induced by Pregabalin.	OBJECTIVES: Pregabalin (PGB) is a gabapentinoid (ie, GABA analog), which has been Food and Drug Administration-approved for treatment of partial epilepsy in adults and neuropathic pain. It also has off-label uses for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorders, fibromyalgia, and tension headache and prevention of migraine. Few cases were reported with sexual dysfunctions (SDs) as adverse effects of PGB and gabapentin, and the majority were dose related (>/=900 mg/d for gabapentin). This study aimed to determine the frequency and types of SDs induced by PGB and the temporal relation to its use. METHODS: We presented case series of patients (n = 75) treated with PGB for different indications (sciatica, atypical facial pain, chronic tension headache, transformed migraine, fibromyalgia, and generalized anxiety disorder and developed different aspects of SDs). RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: In this case series, SDs were noticed with PGB in 41.33% (n = 31) (men, 13 [50%]; women, 18 [36.73%]), which included erectile dysfunction (n = 16, 51.61%), anorgasmia (n = 10, 32.26%), and loss of libido (n = 11, 35.48%). Sexual dysfunctions occurred within weeks after the use of PGB and were not dose related. They occurred with low therapeutic PGB doses (50-100 mg/d). Discontinuation of PGB resulted in improvement of SDs within weeks. To conclude, SDs are not infrequent adverse effects of PGB therapy. Pregabalin can induce erectile dysfunction, loss of libido, and anorgasmia. Sexual dysfunctions induced by PGB are not dose related. It is important for the clinician to acknowledge and encourage discussion regarding sexual function with patients and inquire about the impact of PGB on sexual function.
29666103	Fluoxetine	Pneumonia	0	0	0	0		A puzzling pneumonia in a young immunosuppressed man.	
29325669	Creatine	Hypertension, Malignant	1	0	0	0		Kidney damage due to the use of anabolic androgenic steroides and practice of bodybuilding.	
29325669	Testosterone	Hypertension, Malignant	1	0	0	0		Kidney damage due to the use of anabolic androgenic steroides and practice of bodybuilding.	
29325669	Testosterone	Nephritis, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		Kidney damage due to the use of anabolic androgenic steroides and practice of bodybuilding.	
28946973	Adalimumab	Anti-Neutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody-Associated Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies associated vasculitis in patient with Crohn's disease treated with adalimumab.	
28480791	Caffeine	Headache Disorders, Primary	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome secondary to caffeine withdrawal.	We describe a 39-year-old man who developed thunderclap headaches during a hospital admission for accidental superficial burns. His magnetic resonance brain imaging was normal expect for diffuse segmental vasoconstriction. Prior to admission, he was consuming excessive amounts of caffeine which was restarted and slowly tapered and stopped over weeks. Repeat magnetic resonance angiogram showed resolution of segmental vasoconstriction. The implications of prescribed and non-prescribed drugs on cerebral vasculature have been discussed.
28424113	Diatrizoate Meglumine	Biliary Tract Diseases	0	0	0	0		Vicarious Contrast Excretion with Prolonged Retention Causing Biliary Colic.	
28297016	Brimonidine Tartrate	Bradycardia	1	0	0	0		Bradycardia in a Child After Using Brimonidine as Toothpaste.	
28198207	Aspartame	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Neurophysiological symptoms and aspartame: What is the connection?	Aspartame (alpha-aspartyl-l-phenylalanine-o-methyl ester), an artificial sweetener, has been linked to behavioral and cognitive problems. Possible neurophysiological symptoms include learning problems, headache, seizure, migraines, irritable moods, anxiety, depression, and insomnia. The consumption of aspartame, unlike dietary protein, can elevate the levels of phenylalanine and aspartic acid in the brain. These compounds can inhibit the synthesis and release of neurotransmitters, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin, which are known regulators of neurophysiological activity. Aspartame acts as a chemical stressor by elevating plasma cortisol levels and causing the production of excess free radicals. High cortisol levels and excess free radicals may increase the brains vulnerability to oxidative stress which may have adverse effects on neurobehavioral health. We reviewed studies linking neurophysiological symptoms to aspartame usage and conclude that aspartame may be responsible for adverse neurobehavioral health outcomes. Aspartame consumption needs to be approached with caution due to the possible effects on neurobehavioral health. Whether aspartame and its metabolites are safe for general consumption is still debatable due to a lack of consistent data. More research evaluating the neurobehavioral effects of aspartame are required.
28198207	Aspartame	Nervous System Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Neurophysiological symptoms and aspartame: What is the connection?	Aspartame (alpha-aspartyl-l-phenylalanine-o-methyl ester), an artificial sweetener, has been linked to behavioral and cognitive problems. Possible neurophysiological symptoms include learning problems, headache, seizure, migraines, irritable moods, anxiety, depression, and insomnia. The consumption of aspartame, unlike dietary protein, can elevate the levels of phenylalanine and aspartic acid in the brain. These compounds can inhibit the synthesis and release of neurotransmitters, dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin, which are known regulators of neurophysiological activity. Aspartame acts as a chemical stressor by elevating plasma cortisol levels and causing the production of excess free radicals. High cortisol levels and excess free radicals may increase the brains vulnerability to oxidative stress which may have adverse effects on neurobehavioral health. We reviewed studies linking neurophysiological symptoms to aspartame usage and conclude that aspartame may be responsible for adverse neurobehavioral health outcomes. Aspartame consumption needs to be approached with caution due to the possible effects on neurobehavioral health. Whether aspartame and its metabolites are safe for general consumption is still debatable due to a lack of consistent data. More research evaluating the neurobehavioral effects of aspartame are required.
27560911	Cephalexin	Hypersensitivity, Delayed	1	0	0	0		[Evaluation and characterization of 125 patients with a history of reaction to beta-lactams].	BACKGROUND: Reactions to beta-lactams are frequent and it is difficult to establish the relationship between the drug and symptoms. OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical characteristics and explore the immunological mechanisms of patients with suspected adverse reaction to beta-lactams. METHODS: Retrospective study of patients with a history of beta-lactam reaction and tests for reactions to drugs. RESULTS: Out of 125 patients, 71 were women (56.8%); 73 had a history of immediate reaction and 52 delayed reaction; 590 allergy tests were done: specific IgE measurement, skin prick, patch, and provocation tests. The drugs most often related were amoxycillin, in 62 patients (49.6%), crystalline penicillin in 17 (13.6%), benzathine penicillin in 15 (12%), and cefalexin in 13 (10.4%). The severity of the reaction was mild in the majority (82%). 7.7% had a history of anaphylaxis and 10.8% sought care for a positive penicillin skin test, without history of reaction. Only 6.7% resulted in a positive test. More than 62% began testing two years after the reaction for which they sought care. CONCLUSIONS: The clinical history is insufficient to determine allergy to beta-lactams. In our sample, few patients with a history of beta-lactam reaction had evidence of immune-mediated reactions.
27560911	Cephalexin	Hypersensitivity, Immediate	1	0	0	0		[Evaluation and characterization of 125 patients with a history of reaction to beta-lactams].	BACKGROUND: Reactions to beta-lactams are frequent and it is difficult to establish the relationship between the drug and symptoms. OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical characteristics and explore the immunological mechanisms of patients with suspected adverse reaction to beta-lactams. METHODS: Retrospective study of patients with a history of beta-lactam reaction and tests for reactions to drugs. RESULTS: Out of 125 patients, 71 were women (56.8%); 73 had a history of immediate reaction and 52 delayed reaction; 590 allergy tests were done: specific IgE measurement, skin prick, patch, and provocation tests. The drugs most often related were amoxycillin, in 62 patients (49.6%), crystalline penicillin in 17 (13.6%), benzathine penicillin in 15 (12%), and cefalexin in 13 (10.4%). The severity of the reaction was mild in the majority (82%). 7.7% had a history of anaphylaxis and 10.8% sought care for a positive penicillin skin test, without history of reaction. Only 6.7% resulted in a positive test. More than 62% began testing two years after the reaction for which they sought care. CONCLUSIONS: The clinical history is insufficient to determine allergy to beta-lactams. In our sample, few patients with a history of beta-lactam reaction had evidence of immune-mediated reactions.
29968204	Paclitaxel	Venous Thromboembolism	0	0	0	0		Nab-paclitaxel in combination with gemcitabine for the treatment of metastatic pancreas cancer: the South Wales experience.	The prognosis of pancreatic cancer remains very poor, with a 5-year survival rate of around 3%. There has been little impact from various chemotherapy regimens on improving outcome for several decades. Gemcitabine has been the mainstay chemotherapy for around two decades with little improvement in overall survival (OS) for patients with advanced disease. However, more recently, there has been a paradigm shift in treatment options for these patients. Reported in 2011, combination therapy with FOLFIRINOX (oxaliplatin, irinotecan, leucovorin, and fluorouracil) showed a long awaited but modest improvement in survival, but is reserved only for a small proportion of very fit patients due to concerns over its toxicities. In 2013, the landmark phase III international study MPACT demonstrated an improvement in OS with the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine (GEMBRAX) for the treatment of patients more akin to the real-world population. In the United Kingdom (UK), it was first made widely available on the National Health Service (NHS) in Wales in September 2014 and only recently received a final positive appraisal by NICE (National Institute of Clinical Excellence) for England in 2017. In this paper, we present our data on the use of this treatment for patients in South Wales and compare real-life practical experience with the MPACT data and reflecting the impact of this paradigm shift.
29550757	Aspirin	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Fixed drug eruption associated with aspirin.	
29398068	Hydrochlorothiazide	Carcinoma	0	0	0	0		[Hydrochlorothiazide and skin cancer].	
29222209	Amphetamine	Hematoma, Subdural	1	0	0	0		Interhemispheric subdural and subarachnoid haemorrhage in a patient with amphetamine-induced vasculitis.	
28913596	Sulfasalazine	Surgical Wound Infection	0	0	0	0		[Perioperative management of immunosuppressive treatment in patients undergoing joint surgery].	The perioperative management of patients on immunosuppressive drugs is uncertain due to a lack of controlled studies. Continuation of medication without a pause may increase the risk of postoperative infections and wound healing disorders and when the pause is too long this can induce a flare of the underlying rheumatic disease. Additional factors, such as rheumatic disease activity, comorbidities, previous infections and the type of surgical procedure also modulate the risk. The highest risk of infection is associated with corticosteroids depending on the dose, so that a dosage as low as possible but stable in the perioperative period is recommended. Among the conventional disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) only methotrexate has been sufficiently investigated and in this case a pause in treatment induces higher risks than continuation. Antimalarial agents and sulphasalazine should be continued due to the low risks, whereas leflunomide should be washed out before major surgical interventions. The perioperative risk of treatment with biologics is still far from clear; therefore, as a rule of thumb, withholding treatment for two serum half-lives before an intervention and restarting after completed wound healing are recommended.
27445224	Metronidazole	Neck Pain	1	0	0	0		[Involuntary muscle contractions, severe neck stiffness and pain after taking Metronidazole].	
30059880	Formaldehyde	Encephalitis	0	1	0	0		Exposure to formaldehyde and diisononyl phthalate exacerbate neuroinflammation through NF-kappaB activation in a mouse asthma model.	Diisononyl phthalate (DINP) and formaldehyde both are associated with asthma and allergies. However, it is unclear about the adverse effect of DINP and formaldehyde exposure on the brain for asthma patients. Here, we determined the effect of DINP and/or formaldehyde exposure on neuroinflammation in brain by a murine asthma model and investigated the underlying mechanisms. Mice were exposed to formaldehyde and/or DINP and sensitization with ovalbumin. The results show that exposure to formaldehyde and/or DINP not only exacerbated allergic asthma-like symptoms, but also promoted neuroinflammation in brain. The incrassation of the airway wall and exacerbation of neuroinflammation were more obviously when mice were subjected to a combined exposure to DINP and formaldehyde. Exposure to DINP and/or formaldehyde enhances oxidative stress and the activation of NF-kappaB in the prefrontal cortex of mouse asthma model. Exposure to DINP and/or formaldehyde also induced an increase in IL-1beta, IL-17, and NGF. Blocking oxidative stress by administering melatonin or inhibiting NF-kappaB activation by treatment with Dehydroxymethylepoxyquinomicin effectively prevented increasing the levels IL-1beta, IL-17 and nerve growth factor. The data indicated that DINP and/or formaldehyde exposure promoted neuroinflammation in the brain through enhanced oxidative stress and activation of NF-kappaB in a mouse asthma model.
29941201	Atazanavir Sulfate	Metaplasia	1	0	0	0		Chronic granulomatous interstitial nephritis and urothelial metaplasia associated with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir: a case study and literature review.	
29941201	Atazanavir Sulfate	Nephritis, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		Chronic granulomatous interstitial nephritis and urothelial metaplasia associated with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir: a case study and literature review.	
29941201	Ritonavir	Metaplasia	1	0	0	0		Chronic granulomatous interstitial nephritis and urothelial metaplasia associated with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir: a case study and literature review.	
27843001	Atropine	Myotonic Dystrophy	1	0	0	0		Wide QRS Complex Tachycardia After Atropine Eye Drop Instillation as the First Manifestation of Steinert Disease.	
30062489	Methionine	Renal Insufficiency, Chronic	0	1	0	0		Diet-induced hyperhomocysteinemia impairs vasodilation in 5/6-nephrectomized rats.	Plasma homocysteine is elevated in patients with impaired renal function, and markedly so at end-stage renal disease. As chronic kidney disease and hyperhomocysteinemia are also independent risk factors for cardiovascular disease, the latter is hypothesized to accelerate vascular abnormalities following renal failure. This study aimed to investigate the combined effect of impaired renal function and hyperhomocysteinemia on vascular function. We show that in 5/6-nephrectomized rats, a model of chronic kidney disease, a methionine-rich diet for 8 weeks induces moderate hyperhomocysteinemia, exacerbates hypertension, and attenuates the vascular response to acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside, 8-bromo-cGMP, and isoprenaline. However, plasma nitrate/nitrite and total NOS activity in the thoracic aorta were not affected. Collectively, the data imply that hyperhomocysteinemia and end-stage renal disease synergistically impair endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vasodilatation by blocking the cGMP/protein kinase G and/or cAMP/protein kinase A pathways. 5/6-Nephrectomized rat with hyperhomocysteinemia induced by a methionine-rich diet would be a useful model for elucidating the pathogenesis of vascular impairment in patients with end-stage renal disease.
30056902	Mycophenolic Acid	Malnutrition	0	0	0	0		Malnutrition Risk in Kidney Recipients Treated With Mycophenolate Mofetil Is Associated With IMPDH1 rs2278294 Polymorphism.	BACKGROUND: Malnutrition is known to increase morbidity and mortality in renal transplant recipients, whereas little is known about genetic predisposition to low body mass index (BMI) in the transplant setting. Inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) regulates intracellular fat accumulation, pre-adipicytes maturation, and is a target of mycophenolic acid (MPA) used as a standard immunosuppressant. We hypothesized that MPA may interfere with fat tissue formation and weight gain in kidney transplant recipients and this process may be modified by IMPDH1 or IMPDH2 (genes encoding constitutive and inducible IMPDH) small nucleotide polymorphism variants. STUDY DESIGN: In an observational longitudinal study of kidney transplant recipients treated with mycophenolate mofetil, genetic factors were IMPDH1 (rs2278294, rs2278293) and IMPDH2 (rs11706052) allelic variants, the main outcome was the time-dependent change in BMI, and secondary outcomes were occurrence of BMI below 18.5 or 20 kg/m(2). RESULTS: In a study group of 190 patients, no association was found between BMI changes and rs11706052 and rs2278293 variants. In terms of rs2278294, we found that allele G was associated with significantly slower BMI gain in a dominant model of inheritance. Concerning secondary endpoints, none of the AA carriers were underweight at 6 months post-implantation, while at least 2% of G allele carriers were underweight. From the first post-transplant year, all AA carriers had BMI above 20 kg/m(2), while among G allele carriers at least 10% had BMI < 20 kg/m(2) by generalized estimating equations. CONCLUSION: Based on our results, we postulate that MPA derivates influence post-transplant BMI and potentially also body fat content. In consequence, genotyping rs2278294 would potentially allow clinicians to personalize MPA treatment.
29923433	Somatostatin	Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	Somatostatin analogue-induced pancreatic exocrine insufficiency in patients with neuroendocrine tumors: results of a prospective observational study.	BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours (Wd-NETs) are commonly treated with somatostatin analogues (SSAs). Some patients may develop SSA-related side effects such as pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (PEI). METHODS: In this prospective, observational study, the frequency of SSA-induced PEI in 50 sequential patients with advanced Wd-NETs treated with SSAs was investigated. Toxicity was assessed monthly and faecal elastase-1 (FE1) and quality of life (QoL) were assessed 3-monthly. RESULTS: The median age was 65.8 years, 58% were male and the majority (92%) of patients had metastatic disease; patients received 4-weekly long acting octreotide (60%) or lanreotide (40%). Twelve patients (24%) developed SSA-related PEI after a median of 2.9 months from SSA initiation; FE1 was a reliable screening tool for PEI, especially in symptomatic (abdominal bloating, flatulence and/or diarrhea) patients (risk ratio 8.25 (95% confidence interval 1.15-59.01)). Most of these patients (11/12; 92%) required PERT. Other SSA-related adverse events (any grade) included flatulence (50%), abdominal pain (32%), diarrhoea (30%) and fatigue (20%). Development of PEI did not significantly worsen overall QoL, however gastrointestinal symptoms and diarrhoea were increased. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that PEI occurs at a higher rate than previously reported; clinicians need to diagnose and treat this SSA-related adverse-event which occurs in 1 in 4 patients with Wd-NETs treated with SSAs. Screening with FE1 in symtomatic patients is recommend.
29884665	Caffeine	Acidosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Dangerous mistake: an accidental caffeine overdose.	Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is a natural product commonly presented in food's composition, beverages and medicinal products. Generally, it is thought to be safe under normal dosage, yet it can be fatal in case of severe intoxication. We report a case of a healthy 32-year-old woman who went to the local emergency department (ED) 30 min after ingesting, accidentally, 5000 mg of anhydrous caffeine for a preworkout supplement. At the ED, she presented an episode of presyncope followed by agitation. ECG showed polymorphic broad complex QRS tachycardia and arterial blood gas revealed metabolic acidaemia with severe hypokalemia. The dysrhythmia was successfully treated with intravenous propranolol. Acid-base and hydroelectrolytic disorders were also corrected. A persistent sinus tachycardia was observed in the first 2 days in the ward and 5 days later she was discharged asymptomatic with internal medicine follow-up.
29866692	Saquinavir	Ischemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Headache in an HIV-Positive Patient: Dangerous Interaction.	Ergotism is an ischaemic complication due to vasoconstriction throughout the body due to ingestion of ergotamine. A 34-year-old Hispanic man with HIV infection treated with saquinavir, ritonavir and abacavir/lamivudine presented to the emergency department complaining of left foot pain 1 week prior to admission. The affected extremity was cold with absence of pedal and tibial pulses. Arterial Doppler revealed absent arterial flow from the popliteal artery later confirmed by arteriography. Medication reconciliation revealed a recent prescription for migraine headache containing ergotamine. Drug was discontinued and the patient was started on cilostazol, enoxaparin and nitroglycerin patches on the affected limb. Complete resolution of symptoms and arteriography findings occurred 2 days after therapy began.
29866665	Heparin	Respiratory Tract Diseases	0	0	0	0		Management of acute lower extremity deep venous thrombosis in a patient with duplicated inferior vena cava and contraindication to anticoagulation: case and review of the literature.	Duplication of the inferior vena cava (DIVC) is an uncommon embryological anatomic phenomenon.We report a 63-year-old woman with extensive right leg deep vein thrombosis who required an IVC filter due to contraindications for anticoagulation, but was found to have DIVC which required the placement of two IVC filters with good result. This report will review and summarise past reports of DIVC management to provide a guide for future clinicians, and review the embryological development, diagnosis and IVC filter placement options as they are based on the type of anatomic malformation encountered.
29862971	Ipilimumab	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immunotherapy-induced hypothyroidism A report of melanoma treated by ipilimumab and nivolumab.	We report the case of a patient treated by ipilimumab and nivolumab for a metastatic melanoma. After a mild clinical thyroiditis and a transient biological hyperthyroidism she rapidly demonstrated a peripheral hypothyroidism with appearance of antibodies against thyroperoxidase and thyroglobulin.
29729844	Vardenafil Dihydrochloride	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute Intracranial and Spinal Subdural Hematoma Associated with Vardenafil.	A 28-year-old healthy man was admitted to our hospital because of right-sided headache, vomiting, and lower back pain after the administration of vardenafil. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed a small, right-sided, subdural hematoma. A lumbar magnetic resonance imaging showed a longitudinally extended subdural hematoma. He had no history of trauma. We speculated that vardenafil might have had an association with the bleeding. Several reports have suggested a relationship between phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors and intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage. Our case suggested that there may also be risks of bleeding into the subdural space. Although headache and nausea are common side effects of vardenafil, hemorrhagic diseases should also be considered when symptoms are severe or prolonged.
29580668	Ipilimumab	Jaw Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw: An update on the memorial sloan kettering cancer center experience and the role of premedication dental evaluation in prevention.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between type of antiresorptive medication and medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) onset and the role of premedication dental evaluation (PMDE) in the prevention of MRONJ. STUDY DESIGN: Our database of patients with MRONJ was reviewed. The Kruskal-Wallis test was used to analyze the onset dose of the 3 frequent medication types associated with MRONJ. To evaluate the role of PMDE in the prevention of MRONJ, all patients on antiresorptive and/or antiangiogenic medications seen in the Dental Service of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center during a 10-year period were subclassified into 2 groups. Group I comprised patients seen for PMDE before the commencement of A/A and group II patients seen after prior exposure to antiresorptive and/or antiangiogenic medications. Fischer's exact test was used to compare the incidence of MRONJ in both groups. RESULTS: Patients on denosumab developed MRONJ earlier compared with zoledronate and pamidronate (P = .003). Group I had a significantly reduced incidence of MRONJ (0.9%) compared with group II (10.5%) (P < .0001). Dentoalveolar trauma as a precipitating factor between groups I and II was not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Denosumab was associated with an earlier occurrence of MRONJ compared with zoledronate and pamidronate. The role of PMDE may be an effective preventive strategy in reducing the incidence of MRONJ.
29532162	Prednisolone	Enteritis	1	0	0	0		Eculizumab treatment for ischemic enteritis accompanied with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria: a case report and literature review.	
29192946	Aripiprazole	Hyperhidrosis	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Aripiprazole-Induced Hyperhidrosis: Two Case Reports].	Many drugs including anti-depressants and anti-psychotics are known to cause excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis). Hyperhidrosis may be caused by drugs acting at the hypothalamus, spinal thermoregulatory centres, and sympathetic ganglia or at the eccrine-neuroeffector junction. Hyperhidrosis can be distressing and embarrassing symptom, which if not addressed properly, may lead to non-concordance to medication. Two female patients are reported here who developed hyperhidrosis with aripiprazole. Both the patients stopped experiencing hyperhidrosis after their aripiprazole was discontinued. To the best of the knowledge of the author, no case of aripiprazole induced hyperhidrosis has been published in the literature.
29181701	Prednisone	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	1	0	0	0		Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis induced by induction chemotherapy for pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	
28762178	Isotretinoin	Urinary Bladder, Overactive	0	0	0	0		The influence of duloxetine on detrusor overactivity in rats with depression induced by 13-cis-retinoic acid.	INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of duloxetine in an animal model of detrusor overactivity induced by depression. METHODS: After 6 weeks of 13-cis-retinoic acid administration at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day, rats were given duloxetine at a dose of 1 mg/kg. This was followed by conscious cystometry, a forced swim test, and locomotor activity measurement. The levels of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the hypothalamus, amygdala and plasma were also determined. RESULTS: Duloxetine treatment led to a reduction in detrusor overactivity symptoms induced by the retinoid. Decreases were observed in cystometric parameters including the detrusor overactivity index, and the amplitude and frequency of nonvoiding contractions, while increases were seen in bladder compliance and the volume threshold to elicit nonvoiding contractions. No statistically significant differences were found in basal pressure, threshold pressure, micturition voiding pressure, postvoid residual , volume threshold, voiding efficiency, intercontraction interval, bladder contraction duration or relaxation time. Duloxetine also reduced the immobility time to that observed in control animals, while it did not affect locomotor activity. Its effects also included lowering of the CRF levels in the hypothalamus, amygdala and plasma, which increased following the prior administration of the retinoid. The plasma level of 13-cis-retinoic acid in rats corresponded to the levels found in humans. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study showing the efficacy of duloxetine in an animal model of detrusor overactivity induced by depression. Further studies in patients with detrusor overactivity and coexisting depression are warranted to confirm these experimental results.
28731012	Hyaluronic Acid	Livedo Reticularis	1	0	0	0		Livedo reticularis after intra-articular hyaluronic acid injection.	
28656912	Capecitabine	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Capecitabine-induced acral and mucosal hyperpigmentation.	
28513486	Doxorubicin	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-induced miliaria crystallina and lichenoid follicular eruption.	
28513486	Polyethylene Glycols	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-induced miliaria crystallina and lichenoid follicular eruption.	
28472210	Nitric Acid	Eye Burns	1	0	0	0		Ocular Chemical Burns Secondary to Unintentional Instillation of Aqua Regia Hobbyist Reagent: Not All That Glitters Is Gold.	
27625254	Etanercept	Multiple Sclerosis	1	0	0	0		Multiple sclerosis activated by anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (Etanercept) and the genetic risk.	
27465280	Tenofovir	Fetal Growth Retardation	1	0	0	0		In-utero exposure to tenofovir is associated with impaired fetal and infant growth: need for follow-up studies in combination antiretroviral therapy/HIV-exposed infants.	
27465280	Tenofovir	Growth Disorders	1	0	0	0		In-utero exposure to tenofovir is associated with impaired fetal and infant growth: need for follow-up studies in combination antiretroviral therapy/HIV-exposed infants.	
27465280	Tenofovir	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	0	0	0		In-utero exposure to tenofovir is associated with impaired fetal and infant growth: need for follow-up studies in combination antiretroviral therapy/HIV-exposed infants.	
27031813	Azathioprine	Toxoplasmosis, Ocular	1	0	0	0		Ocular Toxoplasmosis Reactivation in a Patient With Inflammatory Bowel Disease Under Treatment With Azathioprine.	
29750761	Ketorolac Tromethamine	Hematoma	1	0	0	0		Toradol following Breast Surgery: Is There an Increased Risk of Hematoma?	BACKGROUND: Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol), a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, is used with increased frequency given its success in postoperative pain control and the subsequent decreased need for narcotics. Its use has been limited in plastic surgery for fear of postoperative bleeding and hematoma formation. In this study of breast surgery patients, the authors investigated whether ketorolac increased the risk of postoperative hematoma formation. METHODS: After obtaining institutional review board approval, the authors retrospectively reviewed the records of patients undergoing breast surgery from January of 2012 through December of 2014. The authors compared the incidence of postoperative hematomas in patients who did, versus those who did not, receive ketorolac postoperatively. RESULTS: For the entire cohort, the overall hematoma rate was 2.8 percent. Of the patients who received ketorolac, the rate was 3.5 percent; of those who did not, the rate was 2.5 percent. Of the breast reduction patients, the rate was 4 percent in those who received ketorolac versus 3.2 percent in those who did not. Of the breast reconstruction patients, the rate was 4 percent in those who received ketorolac versus 3.2 percent in those who did not. CONCLUSIONS: Recently, the high rates of prescribing postoperative narcotics have received increased attention. Aside from the risk of increased availability of narcotics in the community, the side effects can delay patient recovery. Ketorolac is controversial for postoperative pain control because of the potential risk of bleeding, but in the authors' 3-year retrospective study, it was not associated with an increased risk of hematoma formation. CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III.
29750761	Ketorolac Tromethamine	Postoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Toradol following Breast Surgery: Is There an Increased Risk of Hematoma?	BACKGROUND: Ketorolac tromethamine (Toradol), a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, is used with increased frequency given its success in postoperative pain control and the subsequent decreased need for narcotics. Its use has been limited in plastic surgery for fear of postoperative bleeding and hematoma formation. In this study of breast surgery patients, the authors investigated whether ketorolac increased the risk of postoperative hematoma formation. METHODS: After obtaining institutional review board approval, the authors retrospectively reviewed the records of patients undergoing breast surgery from January of 2012 through December of 2014. The authors compared the incidence of postoperative hematomas in patients who did, versus those who did not, receive ketorolac postoperatively. RESULTS: For the entire cohort, the overall hematoma rate was 2.8 percent. Of the patients who received ketorolac, the rate was 3.5 percent; of those who did not, the rate was 2.5 percent. Of the breast reduction patients, the rate was 4 percent in those who received ketorolac versus 3.2 percent in those who did not. Of the breast reconstruction patients, the rate was 4 percent in those who received ketorolac versus 3.2 percent in those who did not. CONCLUSIONS: Recently, the high rates of prescribing postoperative narcotics have received increased attention. Aside from the risk of increased availability of narcotics in the community, the side effects can delay patient recovery. Ketorolac is controversial for postoperative pain control because of the potential risk of bleeding, but in the authors' 3-year retrospective study, it was not associated with an increased risk of hematoma formation. CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III.
29582109	Rituximab	Leukemia, Plasma Cell	1	0	0	0		Histological transformation of MALT lymphoma to plasma cell leukemia after rituximab-containing therapy.	
29396853	Ipilimumab	Sweet Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Sweet syndrome associated with ipilimumab in a patient with metastatic melanoma.	
29327363	Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate	Pruritus	0	0	0	0		Pretreatment with substance P alleviates irritation due to sodium lauryl sulphate exposure by maintaining E-cadherin expression on human keratinocytes.	
29305999	Fluorouracil	Obesity	1	1	0	0	0.0	High fat diet-induced obesity exacerbates hematopoiesis deficiency and cytopenia caused by 5-fluorouracil via peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of a high-fat diet (HFD) on hematopoietic system recovery under stress condition caused by 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) and to evaluate the alleviating benefit of proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) inhibition on aggravation of 5-Fu-induced toxicity under HFD. Survival rates of HFD or normal diet (ND) mice were monitored after 5-Fu injection. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and the progenitor cells in bone marrow were detected at various time points after 5-Fu administration by flow cytometry. Genes expressed in stem cell and platelet proliferation was tested by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The blood cell profile and coagulation function were determined with an ADVIA 120 hematology system and rotational thromboelastometry, respectively. None of HFD mice remained alive after 5-Fu injection, whereas 87.4% of ND mice survived. HFD accelerated 5-Fu-induced myelosuppression and cytopenia in the circulation, reflected by the worse recovery of HSCs and myeloid progenitor cells. In HFD mice, the number of platelets significantly decreased, and the Vcam-1/Vla-4 signal pathway was downregulated in bone marrow. Meanwhile, mice receiving HFD exhibited dysfunction of blood coagulation with increased clotting formation time. However, pretreatment of HFD mice with bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE), the PPAR-gamma antagonist, reversed the acute lethal toxicity and bone marrow suppression of 5-Fu and accelerated the recovery of HSCs and platelets. In the light of these results, HFD could exacerbate 5-Fu-induced bone marrow toxicity and cytopenia. BADGE treatment offers a potential strategy to alleviate the aggravated hematopoiesis under an HFD.
30150788	Fluoxetine	Lipid Metabolism Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fluoxetine induces lipid metabolism abnormalities by acting on the liver in patients and mice with depression.	Depressive disorders are frequently managed with long-term use of antidepressant medication. Fluoxetine (FLX) is the first selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor to be widely available for the treatment of depression. The present study focuses on the effects and mechanisms of the lipid metabolism abnormalities caused by FLX in patients and in a mouse model of depression. Depression severity was assessed by the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAMD). Triglyceride (TG), cholesterol (TC) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) serum levels were assessed in 28 patients with depression, aged 31.2+/-3.3 years, treated with FLX (20 to 60 mg/day) for 8 weeks. Meanwhile, the serum levels of other lipid metabolism-related parameters, such as high-density lipoprotein (HDL), apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1) and apolipoprotein B (ApoB), were also determined. The infiuence of FLX on the hepatic lipid profile and hepatic gene expression of both lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes was evaluated in a mouse model of depression treated with FLX (10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), ip) for 4 weeks. We showed that the serum TG, TC and LDL levels were significantly increased in patients with depression after FLX treatment. The elevation in serum TG levels in the patients was not affected by gender or family history. FLX treatment did not significantly alter serum HDL, APOA1 or APOB levels in the patients. We further demonstrated in mice with depression that FLX treatment increased the hepatic TG level by increasing the expression of lipogenic enzymes and decreasing the expression of lipolytic enzymes in the liver. Antidepressive therapy with FLX is associated with lipid metabolism abnormalities, which are in part mediated by disturbances in hepatic lipid metabolism homeostasis. The findings contribute to the uncovering of metabolic adverse reactions in the pharmacological therapy of depression.
29960973	Cannabis	Chest Pain	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pseudo-Wellens' syndrome secondary to concurrent cannabis and phencyclidine intoxication.	Wellens' syndrome is an electrocardiographic pattern of T-wave changes associated with critical stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery, signifying imminent risk of an anterior-wall myocardial infarction. The Wellens' electrocardiographic pattern can also be noted in several cardiac and non-cardiac diseases. We chronicle here a unique case of a patient who presented with atypical left chest pain and dizziness for 6 hours. His pain started after he smoked phencyclidine-laced cannabis. Cardiac panel demonstrated normal troponin T levels. Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with new deep biphasic T-wave inversions in anterolateral leads. Coronary angiography showed no pathological processes. Subsequently, ECG changes resolved coincidentally with the resolution of chest pain. He was eventually diagnosed with pseudo-Wellens' syndrome. This paper illustrates that physicians should be vigilant for Wellens' syndrome mimicked by acute phencyclidine and cannabis intoxication. Additionally, we present a review of various aetiologies of pseudo-Wellens' syndrome, especially in patients with substance abuse.
29784450	Cisplatin	Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms	0	0	0	0		Physician assessed and patient reported urinary morbidity after radio-chemotherapy and image guided adaptive brachytherapy for locally advanced cervical cancer.	"BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The EMBRACE study is a prospective multi-institutional study on MRI guided adaptive brachytherapy (IGABT) in locally advanced cervix cancer (LACC). This analysis describes early to late urinary morbidity assessed by physicians and patients (PRO). MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 1176 patients were analysed. Median follow up (FU) was 27 (1-83) months. Morbidity (CTCAE v.3) and PRO (EORTC QLQ-C30&CX24) was prospectively assessed at baseline (BL), and during FU. RESULTS: The most frequent symptoms were frequency/urgency, incontinence, and cystitis with grade 2-4 prevalence rates of 4.3%, 5.0% and 1.7% and grade 1-4 prevalence rates of 24.5%, 16.1% and 5.8% at 3-years. The most frequent PRO endpoints were ""urinary frequency"" and ""leaking of urine"". Prevalence of ""Quite a bit"" or ""very much"" bother fluctuated from 14.0% to 21.5% for ""frequency"", while ""leaking of urine"" increased from 4.6% at BL to 9.3% at 3-years. Actuarial 3-year incidence of grade 3-4 urinary morbidity was 5.3% with most events being urinary frequency, incontinence and ureteral strictures. Grade 3-4 fistula, bleeding, spasm and cystitis were all <1.0% at 3/5-years. No grade 5 toxicity occurred. CONCLUSION: Urinary grade 3-4 morbidity with IGABT was limited. Urinary morbidity grade 2-4 comprises mainly frequency/urgency, incontinence and cystitis and has considerable prevalence in PRO. Various urinary morbidity endpoints have different patterns of manifestation and time course."
28538009	Thimerosal	Otitis Externa	1	0	0	0		"Clinically Relevant Reactions to Thimerosal (the ""Nonallergen"") Exist!"	
27136952	Morphine	Adrenal Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Secondary adrenal insufficiency during opiate treatment].	A 25-year-old previously healthy man developed secondary adrenal insufficiency during opiate treatment with tramadol and morphine for upper back pain. He experienced a 10 kg weight loss in six weeks. MRI of the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland ruled out cerebral pathology. After discontinuation of the opiate treatment the condition normalised. Opiate therapy can cause endocrine dysfunction, and clinicians should always consider adverse drug reactions as a differential diagnosis for unexplained symptoms.
30015889	Glucose	Heart Arrest	0	0	0	0		Astragalin and dihydromyricetin as adjuncts to histidine‑tryptophan‑ketoglutarate cardioplegia enhances protection during cardioplegic arrest.	The present study used an in vitro model of cold cardioplegia in isolated working rat hearts to evaluate the possible effects of two flavonoids, astragalin and dihydromyricetin, as adjuncts to histidine‑tryptophan‑ketoglutarate (HTK) cardioplegia. The following three groups of male Sprague Dawley rats were evaluated: The HTK group, treated with HTK alone; the HTK‑A group, treated with 10 micromol/l astragalin; and the HTK‑D group, treated with 10 micromol/l dihydromyricetin. Isolated rat hearts were perfused with Krebs‑Henseleit buffer for 30 min and incubated with the respective cardioplegic solution for 6 h at 4 C. Subsequently, astragalin or dihydromyricetin was added to the cardioplegic solutions. Following 30 min of reperfusion, the left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), maximum up/down rate of left ventricular pressure (+/-dp/dtmax) and heart rate were documented as indices of myocardial function using a physiological recorder. Myocardial infarct size (IS) was estimated using 2,3,5‑triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) levels were also determined to assess the degree of cardiac injury. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis analysis was performed using an in situ cell death detection kit. In addition, malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), interleukin‑6 (IL‑6), tumor necrosis factor‑alpha (TNF‑alpha), C‑reactive protein (CRP) levels, as well as the glutathione/glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) ratio were determined and analyzed using ELISA kits. The protein levels of caspase‑9 and B‑cell lymphoma‑2 (Bcl‑2) were determined using western blot analysis. The results demonstrated that exposure to astragalin or dihydromyricetin significantly improved the recovery of LVDP (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), the +dP/dtmax (P<0.05 for dihydromyricetin only) and the ‑dP/dtmax (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), increased SOD levels (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively) and GSH/GSSG ratios (P<0.05), reduced myocardial IS (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), decreased CK, LDH, IL‑6 (all P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), MDA (P<0.05), CRP (P<0.05) and TNF‑alpha levels (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), increased Bcl‑2 levels (P<0.01) and decreased caspase‑9 levels (P<0.01). The results indicated that the addition of either flavonoid (particularly dihydromyricetin) to HTK enhances protection during ischemia, decreases myocardial dysfunction by enhancing anti‑inflammatory activities, attenuates myocardial oxidative injury and prevents apoptosis during ischemia/reperfusion.
30015889	Mannitol	Heart Arrest	0	0	0	0		Astragalin and dihydromyricetin as adjuncts to histidine‑tryptophan‑ketoglutarate cardioplegia enhances protection during cardioplegic arrest.	The present study used an in vitro model of cold cardioplegia in isolated working rat hearts to evaluate the possible effects of two flavonoids, astragalin and dihydromyricetin, as adjuncts to histidine‑tryptophan‑ketoglutarate (HTK) cardioplegia. The following three groups of male Sprague Dawley rats were evaluated: The HTK group, treated with HTK alone; the HTK‑A group, treated with 10 micromol/l astragalin; and the HTK‑D group, treated with 10 micromol/l dihydromyricetin. Isolated rat hearts were perfused with Krebs‑Henseleit buffer for 30 min and incubated with the respective cardioplegic solution for 6 h at 4 C. Subsequently, astragalin or dihydromyricetin was added to the cardioplegic solutions. Following 30 min of reperfusion, the left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), maximum up/down rate of left ventricular pressure (+/-dp/dtmax) and heart rate were documented as indices of myocardial function using a physiological recorder. Myocardial infarct size (IS) was estimated using 2,3,5‑triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK) levels were also determined to assess the degree of cardiac injury. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis analysis was performed using an in situ cell death detection kit. In addition, malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), interleukin‑6 (IL‑6), tumor necrosis factor‑alpha (TNF‑alpha), C‑reactive protein (CRP) levels, as well as the glutathione/glutathione disulfide (GSH/GSSG) ratio were determined and analyzed using ELISA kits. The protein levels of caspase‑9 and B‑cell lymphoma‑2 (Bcl‑2) were determined using western blot analysis. The results demonstrated that exposure to astragalin or dihydromyricetin significantly improved the recovery of LVDP (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), the +dP/dtmax (P<0.05 for dihydromyricetin only) and the ‑dP/dtmax (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), increased SOD levels (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively) and GSH/GSSG ratios (P<0.05), reduced myocardial IS (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), decreased CK, LDH, IL‑6 (all P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), MDA (P<0.05), CRP (P<0.05) and TNF‑alpha levels (P<0.05 and P<0.01, respectively), increased Bcl‑2 levels (P<0.01) and decreased caspase‑9 levels (P<0.01). The results indicated that the addition of either flavonoid (particularly dihydromyricetin) to HTK enhances protection during ischemia, decreases myocardial dysfunction by enhancing anti‑inflammatory activities, attenuates myocardial oxidative injury and prevents apoptosis during ischemia/reperfusion.
30002211	Azathioprine	Oral Ulcer	1	0	0	0		Azathioprine-induced pancytopenia with normal TPMT activity presenting with HSV oral ulcers.	A 65-year-old man with treatment-resistant psoriatic arthritis, hypertension, dyslipidaemia and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) presented with herpes simplex virus (HSV) oral ulcers and a recent 15 lb weight loss due to reduced consumption. Five weeks previously, his methotrexate was tapered and he had begun taking azathioprine. The patient's thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity level was normal prior to starting azathioprine. He was found to have pancytopenia with normal folate levels and azathioprine was discontinued. His pancytopenia worsened, with a nadir 8 days after stopping azathioprine, before returning to normal levels. His oral ulcers improved and he was able to tolerate solid food. This case illustrates that decreased TPMT activity is not the only risk factor for pancytopenia as an adverse reaction to azathioprine. Furthermore, HSV stomatitis may be the presenting symptom of pancytopenia. The timeline of improvement in cell counts illustrated in this patient has implications for the management of suspected azathioprine-induced pancytopenia.
29150206	Etanercept	Anti-Neutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody-Associated Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Sustained response to rituximab in a TNFi-induced ANCA-vasculitis developed in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.	
29150206	Methylprednisolone	Anti-Neutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody-Associated Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Sustained response to rituximab in a TNFi-induced ANCA-vasculitis developed in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.	
28975389	Bleomycin	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Cyclophosphamide	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Doxorubicin	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Etoposide	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Prednisone	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Procarbazine	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28975389	Vincristine	Histiocytosis, Langerhans-Cell	1	0	0	0		PET-positive bone lesion due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis after BEACOPP therapy for Hodgkin lymphoma: how anamnesis, histopathological accuracy, and molecular analysis could resolve a clinical dilemma.	
28840298	Idarubicin	Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute	1	0	0	0		Therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia with inv(16) after successful therapy for de novo acute myeloid leukemia with t(8;21).	
28300138	Hydrocortisone	Fatigue	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reduced DNA methylation and psychopathology following endogenous hypercortisolism - a genome-wide study.	Patients with Cushing's Syndrome (CS) in remission were used as a model to test the hypothesis that long-standing excessive cortisol exposure induces changes in DNA methylation that are associated with persisting neuropsychological consequences. Genome-wide DNA methylation was assessed in 48 women with CS in long-term remission (cases) and 16 controls matched for age, gender and education. The Fatigue impact scale and the comprehensive psychopathological rating scale were used to evaluate fatigue, depression and anxiety. Cases had lower average global DNA methylation than controls (81.2% vs 82.7%; p = 0.002). Four hundred and sixty-one differentially methylated regions, containing 3,246 probes mapping to 337 genes were identified. After adjustment for age and smoking, 731 probes in 236 genes were associated with psychopathology (fatigue, depression and/or anxiety). Twenty-four gene ontology terms were associated with psychopathology; terms related to retinoic acid receptor signalling were the most common (adjusted p = 0.0007). One gene in particular, COL11A2, was associated with fatigue following a false discovery rate correction. Our findings indicate that hypomethylation of FKBP5 and retinoic acid receptor related genes serve a potential mechanistic explanation for long-lasting GC-induced psychopathology.
28276483	Angiotensin II	Aneurysm, Dissecting	0	0	0	0		Vascular transcriptome profiling identifies Sphingosine kinase 1 as a modulator of angiotensin II-induced vascular dysfunction.	Vascular dysfunction is an important phenomenon in hypertension. We hypothesized that angiotensin II (AngII) affects transcriptome in the vasculature in a region-specific manner, which may help to identify genes related to vascular dysfunction in AngII-induced hypertension. Mesenteric artery and aortic transcriptome was profiled using Illumina WG-6v2.0 chip in control and AngII infused (490 ng/kg/min) hypertensive mice. Gene set enrichment and leading edge analyses identified Sphingosine kinase 1 (Sphk1) in the highest number of pathways affected by AngII. Sphk1 mRNA, protein and activity were up-regulated in the hypertensive vasculature. Chronic sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) infusion resulted in a development of significantly increased vasoconstriction and endothelial dysfunction. AngII-induced hypertension was blunted in Sphk1(-/-) mice (systolic BP 167 +/- 4.2 vs. 180 +/- 3.3 mmHg, p < 0.05), which was associated with decreased aortic and mesenteric vasoconstriction in hypertensive Sphk1(-/-) mice. Pharmacological inhibition of S1P synthesis reduced vasoconstriction of mesenteric arteries. While Sphk1 is important in mediating vasoconstriction in hypertension, Sphk1(-/-) mice were characterized by enhanced endothelial dysfunction, suggesting a local protective role of Sphk1 in the endothelium. S1P serum level in humans was correlated with endothelial function (arterial tonometry). Thus, vascular transcriptome analysis shows that S1P pathway is critical in the regulation of vascular function in AngII-induced hypertension, although Sphk1 may have opposing roles in the regulation of vasoconstriction and endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation.
28271269	Tacrolimus	Liver Failure, Acute	0	1	0	0		[A 20-year-old woman with ulcerative colitis and acute liver failure].	A 20-year-old woman presented with acute exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. After treatment with infliximab, she developed a fulminant liver failure. Under supportive therapy and steroid medication, recovery of symptoms and transaminases occurred. A few case reports about hepatic side effects of anti-TNF-alpha antibodies in patients with inflammatory bowel disease have been published. These side effects ranged from asymptomatic increase of transaminases to fulminant liver failure necessitating transplantation. The pathomechanism is not fully understood; in some case reports autoimmune phenomena have been described.
29790482	Carrageenan	Enterocolitis	1	0	0	0		A study of enterocyte membranes during activation of apoptotic processes in chronic carrageenan-induced gastroenterocolitis.	Aim To investigate the lipid membranes of rat enterocytes in chronic carrageenan-induced gastroenterocolitis accompanied by the activation of apoptotic processes. Methods Steady-state fluorescence spectroscopy: a study by fluorescent probes - by ortho-hydroxy derivatives of 2,5-diaryl-1,3- oxazole. Activity of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in small intestinal homogenates, blood serum levels of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and caspase-3 and the level of DNA fragmentation in small intestinal homogenates were determined. Results Biochemical analysis revealed that an activation of apoptotic processes occurred in the intestinal epithelium of rats during chronic carrageenan-induced gastroenterocolitis. The fluorescence probes showed that activation of apoptotic processes in carrageenan-induced gastroenterocolitis was accompanied by changes in polar regions of rat enterocyte membranes, while no changes were revealed in more hydrophobic regions of the membranes. Conclusion The increase in hydration of membranes was attributed to the activation of the apoptosis of enterocytes. It has been shown that a fluorescent probe (2-(2'-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenyl-1,3-oxazole) can be used for the detection of apoptosis of enterocytes.
29770787	Etanercept	Myelodysplastic Syndromes	1	0	0	0		Myelodysplasia in a psoriasis patient receiving etanercept: Cause or coincidence?	
29536979	Talc	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Oral lichenoid reactions to talcum powder: A usual report with unusual history.	
29536979	Talc	Mouth Diseases	1	0	0	0		Oral lichenoid reactions to talcum powder: A usual report with unusual history.	
29949720	Ergotamine	Sheep Diseases	0	0	0	0		Development of a model for investigation of perennial ryegrass toxicosis in sheep.	AIMS To develop a clinical model of perennial ryegrass toxicosis (PRGT) based on feeding a known dose of lolitrem B and ergotamine, and to produce a consistent clinical presentation for assessment of disease pathophysiology, neurological changes and neurohistopathology. METHODS Male lambs, aged between 10-12 months, were randomly assigned to either Treatment (n=9) or Control (n=9) groups. Lambs in the Treatment group received feed containing a novel endophyte-infested perennial ryegrass seed, commencing on Day 0 of the Feeding phase with a low induction dose, then increasing after 3 days to provide 0.16 mg/kg live bodywight (LBW)/day of lolitrem B and 0.054 mg/kg LBW/day ergotamine. Lambs were examined daily and when defined signs of PRGT were observed they were transferred to the Testing phase. Neurological examinations, assessment of gait, surface electromyography (EMG) and mechanosensory nociceptive threshold testing were carried out and blood samples collected during both phases of the trial, with a full necropsy, histopathological examination and measurement of faecal cortisol metabolites (FCM) performed on Day 2 of the Testing phase. RESULTS Typical clinical signs of PRGT, including ataxia of vestibulocerebellar origin leading to stumbling, were observed in all Treatment lambs. The median interval from the start of the Feeding phase to entry into the Testing phase was 21 (min 18, max 34) days. Histopathological characterisation of neurological lesions included the presence of Purkinje cell vacuolation, pyknotic granular layer neurons and proximal axonal Purkinje cell spheroids. Lesions were most apparent within the vestibulocerebellum. Mean root-mean-square voltages from triceps EMG increased in Treatment lambs between Feeding phase Day 0 and Testing phase Day 2 (p<0.001). Daily water intake during the Testing phase for the Treatment group was less than in Control group lambs (p=0.002), and concentrations of FCM at necropsy were higher in Treatment compared to Control lambs (p=0.02). CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE Lolitrem B and ergotamine dosing in feed on a live weight basis combined with neurological/gait assessment provides an effective model for investigation of PRGT and potential therapeutics. Assessment of gait changes using defined criteria and RMS voltages from EMG appear to be useful tools for the assessment of the severity of neurological changes.
30054325	Linezolid	Pancytopenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Linezolid-induced pancytopenia.	Linezolid is a bacteriostatic antibiotic of the Oxazolidinone class; it works by inhibiting the initiation of protein synthesis on bacterial ribosomes. Due to its excellent bioavailability after oral dosing, it has become an important tool in combating multi-drug-resistant bacteria including glycopeptide-resistant enterococci and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus Side effects are multiple and potentially serious. We report the case of an 87-year-old man who developed pancytopenia secondary to a 6-week course of linezolid. Withdrawal of the antibiotic was decided as the treatment and resolution of the pancytopenia was evident within 2 weeks. Clinicians should be aware of this side effect of linezolid therapy and that weekly full blood count monitoring is paramount.
30007329	Trimethoprim	Pyloric Stenosis	0	0	0	0		Treatment of Neonatal Chlamydial Conjunctivitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND: With the continued high prevalence of chlamydia worldwide and high risk of transfer from mothers to their infant during delivery, a need for safe and effective therapies for infants who acquire a chlamydial infection remains. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of antibiotic treatments, including oral erythromycin, azithromycin, and trimethoprim, for neonatal chlamydial conjunctivitis. METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) from their inception to July 14, 2017. We included randomized and nonrandomized studies that evaluated the effects of erythromycin, azithromycin, or trimethoprim in neonates with chlamydial conjunctivitis. A meta-analysis using a random-effects generic inverse-variance method was performed, and the certainty of evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. RESULTS: We found 12 studies (n = 292 neonates) and were able to meta-analyze 7 studies that used erythromycin at a dose of 50 mg/kg body weight per day for 14 days. The clinical and microbiological cure were 96% (95% confidence interval [CI], 94%-100%) and 97% (95% CI, 95%-99%), respectively, and adverse gastrointestinal effects occurred in 14% (95% CI, 1%-28%) of the neonates. The microbiological cure in the study that assessed azithromycin at 20 mg/kg per day were 60% (95% CI, 27%-93%) when it was given in a single dose and 86% (95% CI, 61%-100%) when given in a 3-day course. Two studies reported compliance with treatments, and 1 study reported no pyloric stenosis events. Because of the risk of bias and the few neonates included across the studies, the certainty of evidence is low to very low. No studies assessed trimethoprim. CONCLUSIONS: Although evidence suggests that erythromycin at 50 mg/kg per day for 14 days results in higher numbers of cure than does azithromycin, compliance and risk of pyloric stenosis related to their use for other infections in neonates will factor into treatment recommendations. More data are needed to compare these treatments directly.
29300515	Cyclophosphamide	Graves Ophthalmopathy	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29300515	Cyclophosphamide	Orbital Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29300515	Doxorubicin	Orbital Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29300515	Prednisone	Graves Ophthalmopathy	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29300515	Vincristine	Graves Ophthalmopathy	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29300515	Vincristine	Orbital Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced exacerbations of thyroid orbitopathy in a patient with B-cell lymphoma.	A 55-year-old woman with concurrent active thyroid orbitopathy and B-cell lymphoma developed acute exacerbation of thyroid orbitopathy after receiving Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, Prednisone (R-CHOP) chemotherapy, presenting with subtotal loss of vision and severe eyelid edema. Intravenous methylprednisolone was fully effective within several hours. Further exacerbations of her orbitopathy were seen following every subsequent chemotherapeutic treatment, but responded well to oral prednisone. This case shows that thyroid orbitopathy may severely and acutely progress after chemotherapy for concurrent B-cell lymphoma. Clinical awareness of this potential complication may prevent blindness in this rare subset of patients.
29277882	Mesalamine	Urinary Calculi	1	0	0	0		Mesalazine: A Novel Etiology For Drug-Induced Urinary Calculi.	We report the case of a 23-year-old woman treated by mesalazine for ulcerative colitis and who subsequently presented recurrent renal colic due to mesalazine urinary stones. This is the second case described in the literature.Mesalazine stones are soft, friable and have an orange-beige color. They are not visible on non-contrast computed tomography (CT). Their diagnosis is based on morpho-constitutional analysis and CT-urography. Patients treatedby mesalazine who present renal colic should undergo CT-urography in order to make the diagnosis.
29605639	Hydrogen Peroxide	Vascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Multivessel analysis of progressive vascular aging in the rat: Asynchronous vulnerability among vascular territories.	Aging induces vascular dysfunction, representing the major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Our aim was to ascertain specific vulnerability of vascular territories to aging by evaluating the progressive impact of aging on vascular function in four different vascular beds: aorta, mesenteric artery (MA), coronary artery (CA), and penile corpus cavernosum (CC) from 3, 6, 9, 12, 20 or 24 months-old male rats. Contractile/relaxant responses were evaluated in organ chambers (A/CC) and wire myographs (MA/CA). Relationships of systemic biomarkers with endothelial function impairment were also determined. Although all vessels manifested aging-related impairment in endothelial vasodilation, CA was the most impacted by aging considering the onset (at 6 months) and magnitude of endothelial dysfunction (reduction by 1.5 log units in the concentration required for 50% of maximal relaxation for acetylcholine). H(2)O(2)-induced vasodilations were progressively reduced by aging in aorta, CC and CA while NO-donor-induced vasodilation was impaired by aging only in CA. Serum asymmetric dimethylarginine significantly correlated to endothelial decline in aorta, MA, and CC, while HOMA-IR was significantly associated with endothelial dysfunction in CA and MA. CA are especially vulnerable to aging-related vascular dysfunction. Correlations of vascular dysfunction with systemic biomarkers differ among vessels, further suggesting heterogeneity in aging-induced vascular impact.
29217346	Hydrochlorothiazide	Carcinoma, Basal Cell	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hydrochlorothiazide use and risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer: A nationwide case-control study from Denmark.	BACKGROUND: Hydrochlorothiazide, one of the most frequently used diuretic and antihypertensive drugs in the United States and Western Europe, is photosensitizing and has previously been linked to lip cancer. OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between hydrochlorothiazide use and the risk of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). METHODS: From the Danish Cancer Registry, we identified patients (cases) with nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) during 2004-2012. Controls were matched 1:20 by age and sex. Cumulative hydrochlorothiazide use (in 1995-2012) was assessed from the Danish Prescription Registry. Using conditional logistic regression, we calculated odds ratios (ORs) for BCC and SCC associated with hydrochlorothiazide use. RESULTS: High use of hydrochlorothiazide (>/=50,000 mg) was associated with ORs of 1.29 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.23-1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI, 3.68-4.31) for SCC. We found clear dose-response relationships between hydrochlorothiazide use and both BCC and SCC; the highest cumulative dose category (>/=200,000 mg of HCTZ) had ORs of 1.54 (95% CI, 1.38-1.71) and 7.38 (95% CI, 6.32-8.60) for BCC and SCC, respectively. Use of other diuretics and antihypertensives was not associated with NMSC. LIMITATIONS: No data on sun exposure were available. CONCLUSIONS: Hydrochlorothiazide use is associated with a substantially increased risk of NMSC, especially SCC.
28132079	Asparaginase	Sagittal Sinus Thrombosis	1	0	0	0		Successful treatment with apixaban of sinus venous thrombosis due to pegylated asparaginase in a young adult with T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia: case report and review of management.	
30297131	Buprenorphine	Colonic Diseases	0	0	0	0		Colon constipation in horses after sustained-release buprenorphine administration.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the pharmacological profile and side effects of buprenorphine administered as a sustained-release formulation in horses. STUDY DESIGN: Pilot trial. ANIMALS: A total of four experimental horses, aged 18-27 years and weighing 508-578 kg. METHODS: Buprenorphine (0.1 mg kg(-1)) was mixed as a freshly prepared sterile solution with a sustained-release drug carrier. It was administered by the subcutaneous (n = 2) or intramuscular (n = 2) route. During the experiment, the horses were closely monitored, equipped with a step counter and blood samples were collected for quantification of buprenorphine in plasma. RESULTS: All four horses developed colon constipation requiring medical therapy, together with increased locomotor activity. One horse, requiring surgical treatment of colon constipation, was euthanized during recovery from anaesthesia for weakness and severe lower airway obstruction. The three other horses recovered fully within 5-7 days. Plasma buprenorphine concentrations were between 1 and 8 ng mL(-1) for approximately 48 hours. No local reaction was observed at the injection sites. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Administration of the sustained-release formulation of buprenorphine at a dose of 0.1 mg kg(-1) resulted in plasma concentrations compatible with antinociceptive activity for at least 48 hours. The observed severe and undesirable effects of colon constipation and increased locomotor activity definitely preclude clinical use of sustained-release buprenorphine at this dose.
30297131	Buprenorphine	Horse Diseases	0	0	0	0		Colon constipation in horses after sustained-release buprenorphine administration.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the pharmacological profile and side effects of buprenorphine administered as a sustained-release formulation in horses. STUDY DESIGN: Pilot trial. ANIMALS: A total of four experimental horses, aged 18-27 years and weighing 508-578 kg. METHODS: Buprenorphine (0.1 mg kg(-1)) was mixed as a freshly prepared sterile solution with a sustained-release drug carrier. It was administered by the subcutaneous (n = 2) or intramuscular (n = 2) route. During the experiment, the horses were closely monitored, equipped with a step counter and blood samples were collected for quantification of buprenorphine in plasma. RESULTS: All four horses developed colon constipation requiring medical therapy, together with increased locomotor activity. One horse, requiring surgical treatment of colon constipation, was euthanized during recovery from anaesthesia for weakness and severe lower airway obstruction. The three other horses recovered fully within 5-7 days. Plasma buprenorphine concentrations were between 1 and 8 ng mL(-1) for approximately 48 hours. No local reaction was observed at the injection sites. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Administration of the sustained-release formulation of buprenorphine at a dose of 0.1 mg kg(-1) resulted in plasma concentrations compatible with antinociceptive activity for at least 48 hours. The observed severe and undesirable effects of colon constipation and increased locomotor activity definitely preclude clinical use of sustained-release buprenorphine at this dose.
30124724	Clobetasol	Pain	0	0	0	0		Safety and Efficacy of a Fixed Combination Halobetasol and Tazarotene Lotion in the Treatment of Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis: A Pooled Analysis of Two Phase 3 Studies.	BACKGROUND: Topical corticosteroids (TCS) are the mainstay of psoriasis treatment. Safety concerns may limit use. Combination with tazarotene may optimize efficacy and minimize safety and tolerability concerns. OBJECTIVE: Investigate safety and efficacy of halobetasol propionate 0.01%/tazarotene 0.045% (HP/TAZ) lotion in moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. METHODS: Two multicenter, randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled phase 3 studies (N=418). Subjects randomized (2:1) to HP/TAZ lotion or vehicle once-daily for 8 weeks, 4-week follow-up. Primary efficacy assessment: treatment success (at least a 2-grade improvement from baseline in IGA score and 'clear' or 'almost clear'). Safety and treatment emergent AEs evaluated throughout. RESULTS: HP/TAZ lotion demonstrated statistically significant superiority over vehicle as early as week 2 (P equals 0.002). By week 8, 40.6% of subjects were treatment successes compared with 9.9% on vehicle (P less than 0.001). A third of subjects remained treatment successes post-treatment. HP/TAZ lotion was also superior in reducing psoriasis signs and symptoms, and Body Surface Area (BSA) involvement. Most frequently reported treatment related AEs were contact dermatitis (6.3%), application site pain (2.6%), and pruritus (2.2%). LIMITATIONS: No data were collected beyond the 4-week follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: HP/TAZ lotion provides synergistic efficacy that is both rapid and sustained, with good tolerability and safety over 8 weeks use. J Drugs Dermatol. 2018;17(8):855-861.
29473172	Ceftriaxone	Splenomegaly	1	1	0	0	1.0	Ceftriaxone-induced drug reaction mimicking acute splenic sequestration crisis in a child with hemoglobin SC disease.	BACKGROUND: Acute splenic sequestration crisis is a complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) occurring when intrasplenic red blood cell (RBC) sickling prevents blood from leaving the spleen, causing acute splenic enlargement. Although typically seen in young children, it has been reported in older children with hemoglobin (Hb)SC disease, eventually resulting in functional asplenia. Ceftriaxone is a frequently used antibiotic of choice for children with SCD, because of its efficacy against invasive pneumococcal disease. CASE REPORT: We report a case of a 9-year-old female with HbSC disease, who had a fatal reaction after receiving a dose of ceftriaxone in the outpatient clinic for fever. Her Hb level decreased abruptly from 9.3 to 2.3 mg/dL. RBC clumps with no visible hemolysis were observed in the postreaction sample. Autopsy examination revealed marked splenomegaly with acute congestion and sickled cells in the spleen and liver. Serologic testing revealed a positive direct antiglobulin test with polyspecific antibody, anti-C3, and anti-C3d, but negative with anti-immunoglobulin G. Ceftriaxone-dependent RBC antibodies were detected in her serum and RBC eluate when tested in the presence of the drug. CONCLUSION: We report a new presentation of ceftriaxone-induced drug reaction in a patient with SCD mimicking an acute splenic sequestration crisis. Review of the literature for cases of ceftriaxone-induced drug reactions in pediatric patients revealed nine previously reported cases of ceftriaxone-induced immune hemolytic anemia in children with SCD since 1995, but none with an initial presentation suggestive of acute splenic sequestration crisis.
27306938	Infliximab	Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome in a Patient With Crohn's Disease on Infliximab.	
30021735	Cyclophosphamide	Cryptococcosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Cyclophosphamide	Empyema, Pleural	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Doxorubicin	Cryptococcosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Doxorubicin	Empyema, Pleural	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Prednisone	Empyema, Pleural	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Vincristine	Cryptococcosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
30021735	Vincristine	Empyema, Pleural	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cryptococcus neoformans empyema in a patient receiving ibrutinib for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and a review of the literature.	We report a case of Cryptococcus neoformans pulmonary infection complicated by empyema in a 79-year-old man with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma treated with R-CHOP and ibrutinib. A literature review identified 25 cases of cryptococcal pleural disease published since 1980. Most cases were caused by the C. neoformans species in immunocompromised hosts with an exudative pleural effusion and lymphocyte-predominant infiltrate. The cryptococcal antigen test was often positive when pleural fluid and serum were tested. The outcome was favourable in most cases with antifungal therapy and either thoracocentesis or surgical resection. We also identified 40 cases of opportunistic infections, most commonly aspergillosis, cryptococcosis and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, in patients treated with ibrutinib. In vitro studies indicate Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibition impairs phagocyte function and offer a mechanism for the apparent association between ibrutinib and invasive fungal infections.
29987915	Clozapine	Tuberculosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Antipsychotic drugs and risk of newly diagnosed tuberculosis in schizophrenia.	AIM: Patients with schizophrenia have a higher incidence of tuberculosis than do people in the general population. Information is limited regarding the association between antipsychotic agents and the risk of tuberculosis in patients with schizophrenia. This exploratory study assessed the risk of tuberculosis among patients with schizophrenia on antipsychotic therapy. METHODS: Among a nationwide schizophrenia cohort derived from the National Health Insurance Research Database in Taiwan (n = 32 399), we identified 284 patients who had developed newly diagnosed tuberculosis after their first psychiatric admission. Ten or fewer matched controls were selected randomly from the cohort for each patient based on risk-set sampling. We categorized exposure to antipsychotic medications by type and defined daily dose. Using multivariate methods, we explored individual antipsychotic agents for the risk of tuberculosis and employed a propensity-scoring method in sensitivity analyses to validate any associations. RESULTS: Among the antipsychotic agents studied and after adjustment for covariates, current use of clozapine was the only antipsychotic agent associated with a 63% increased risk of tuberculosis (adjusted risk ratio = 1.63, P = 0.014). In addition, the association did not show a clear dose-dependent relationship. Clozapine combined with other antipsychotic agents showed a potential synergistic risk for tuberculosis (adjusted risk ratio = 2.30, P = 0.044). CONCLUSION: This exploratory study suggests the potential risk of clozapine on the risk of tuberculosis, especially for those on clozapine in combination with other antipsychotics. Future studies are needed to verify the association.
29558860	Midazolam	Sheep Diseases	0	0	0	0		Pregnant sheep develop hypoxaemia during short-term anaesthesia for caesarean delivery.	Short-term anaesthesia of the pregnant ewe may be required for caesarean delivery of a preterm foetus within a research protocol. The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the acid-base and haematological status of the ewe and foetus at the time of surgical delivery by collecting maternal and foetal arterial blood samples. Fifteen date-mated singleton-pregnant merino cross ewes at 122.0 (+/-0.5) days of gestation were anaesthetised with a combination of midazolam (0.5 mg/kg) and ketamine (10 mg/kg) by intravenous injection. A subarachnoid injection of lidocaine (60 mg) was given to desensitise the caudal abdomen. Supplemental oxygen was not provided, and an endotracheal tube was not placed in the ewe's trachea. The development of maternal respiratory acidosis (hypercapnia) and hypoxaemia was anticipated. Samples of arterial blood for blood gas analyses were collected simultaneously from the radial artery of the ewe and the umbilical artery of the foetus immediately after delivery. The results from the maternal blood samples were within the normal range for pH, partial pressure of carbon dioxide in arterial blood (PaCO(2)), base excess, glucose, lactate, haematocrit and haemoglobin concentration. The maternal partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood (PaO(2)) revealed hypoxaemia: 45.2 (41.1-53.4) mmHg. Foetal arterial blood gas analysis revealed hypoxaemia (15.0 +/- 3.1 mmHg) and hypoglycaemia (0.1 (0.1-1.1) mmol/L). The benefit of providing supplemental oxygen and/or placing an endotracheal tube must be carefully weighed against the benefit of saving time when prompt delivery of the foetus is planned. In this study the pregnant ewe developed severe hypoxaemia, and this abnormality may have contributed to a low foetal PaO(2).
30412069	Arsenic	Neurodevelopmental Disorders	0	0	0	0		Preliminary study of urinary arsenic concentration and arsenic methylation capacity effects on neurodevelopment in very low birth weight preterm children under 24 months of corrected age.	The neurological prognoses of very low birth weight preterm (VLBWP) children during the first 2 years of life will influence their neurodevelopment during subsequent childhood years and adolescence. The objective of this study was to systemic investigate relationships of urinary arsenic (As) concentrations, the As methylation capability, and toenail As concentrations on cognitive, language, and motor development in VLBWP children under 24 months of corrected age.Participants (n = 60) in our study were recruited from October 2010 to April 2013. Urine and toenail samples were collected for evaluation to assess As exposure. The Bayley scales of infant development III were used to evaluate neurodevelopment at 2 years of corrected age. Concentrations of As species in urine and the As concentration in toenails were, respectively, analyzed using HPLC-HG-AAS and ICP-MS.The mean concentration of total As was 28.6 mug/g creatinine, and inorganic As was 1.01 mug/L in urine. The urine contained an average of 3% inorganic As, 2% monomethylarsonic acid, and 95% dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). The mean concentration of As in toenails was 225 ng/g. Children with a longer gestational age (>/=28 weeks) and higher DMA % levels appeared to have the highest unadjusted cognitive and fine motor scores.Our study results suggest that gestational age is associated with neurodevelopment in VLBWP children. We recommend that further study simultaneously analyze multiple environmental contaminants that may have adverse effects on neurodevelopment, use biomarkers for the mother-child pair, and determine whether prenatal or postnatal As exposure has a greater influence on the neurological development of VLBWP children.
30407314	Methotrexate	Rhabdomyolysis	1	1	0	1	0.0	Rhabdomyolysis during myelosuppression in a patient with central nervous system leukemia: A case report.	RATIONALE: Rhabdomyolysis is a potentially life-threatening syndrome and is a rare complication in patients with acute leukemia. PATIENT'S CONCERNS: A 20-year-old male was admitted to our hospital due to skin ecchymosis in his trunk and lower limbs for 10 days. DIAGNOSES: Based on the precise diagnosis of leukemia, namely cell morphology, immunology, cytogenetics, and molecular biological typing (MICM), the patient was diagnosed with acute T-lymphocytic leukemia (T-ALL). INTERVENTIONS: The patient received hyper-Cyclophosphamide, Vincristine,Adriamycin, Dexamethasone (hyper-CVAD) regimen chemotherapy (methotrexate, pirarubicin, vincristine and dexamethasone alternating with methotrexate and cytarabine) for 3 courses of chemotherapy. After 3 months of treatment, the patient developed intermittent pain, blurred vision, and inarticulate speech. Therefore, the patient was considered as central nervous system leukemia (CNSL) and immediately received 2 courses of chemotherapy with hyper-CVAD-B combined with polyethylene glycol conjugated asparaginase (PEG-ASP). OUTCOMES: On the seventh day after the completion of chemotherapy, the patient was diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis because he complained of perianal pain and hematuria, and his creatine kinase (CK) increased suddenly to 3136 U/L. Finally, the patient died despite all kinds of active rescue. LESSONS: Rhabdomyolysis may occur after chemotherapy of leukemia. When patients developed hematuria, muscle weakness, or even asymptomatic elevation of CK levels, physicians should pay attention to the occurrence of rhabdomyolysis and take active hydration treatment.
29936365	Cyclophosphamide	Hemorrhagic Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	S-allyl cysteine ameliorates cyclophosphamide-induced downregulation of urothelial uroplakin IIIa with a concomitant effect on expression and release of CCL11and TNF-alpha in mice.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the modulatory effect of S-allyl cysteine against cyclophosphamide-induced changes in uroplakin IIIa, CCL11 and TNF-alpha. METHODS: Mice were treated with cyclophosphamide (200mg/kgx7 d, ip). S-allyl cysteine (150mg/kgx7d, ip), and comparator compound mesna (40mg/kgx7d, ip) were administered 1h before and 4h after each cyclophosphamide dose. The urinary bladder was analysed for mRNA and protein changes in uroplakin IIIa (UPIIIa), CCL11 and TNF-alpha and histopathological findings. RESULTS: Cyclophosphamide caused hemorrhagic cystitis formation and downregulation of UPIIIa. These changes were accompanied by upregulation of CCL11 and TNF-alpha. S-allyl cysteine attenuated these changes including protection at histological level. Mesna which was used as a comparator drug also showed protection. However, relatively S-allyl cysteine showed a stronger protective effect than mesna. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight a correlation between downregulaion of UPIIIa and enhanced production of inflammatory biomarkers and protective effects of S-allyl cysteine which has been reported to be a potent uroprotective agent. The present study strengthens its role which could be clinically exploited in chemotherapy regimen.
29804294	Amoxicillin	Dizziness	0	0	0	0		Ten-day high-dose proton pump inhibitor triple therapy versus sequential therapy for Helicobacter pylori eradication.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Eradication rates of Helicobacter pylori following standard triple therapy are declining worldwide, but high-dose proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy (HD-PPI-TT) and sequential therapy (ST) have demonstrated higher cure rates. We aimed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of HD-PPI-TT and ST in H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia (FD). METHODS: One hundred and twenty H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia patients were randomized to receive 10-day HD-PPI-TT (60 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 10 days) or 10-day ST (30 mg lansoprazole/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 5 days followed by 30 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/400 mg metronidazole, each administered twice daily for 5 days). H. pylori status was determined in post-treatment week 4 by (14) C-urea breath test. Eradication and antibiotic resistance rates, dyspeptic symptoms, drug compliance, and adverse effects were compared. RESULTS: Intention-to-treat eradication rates were similar in the ST and HD-PPI-TT groups (85% vs. 80%; P = 0.47). However, the eradication rate was significantly higher following ST compared with HD-PPI-TT in per protocol analysis (94.4% vs. 81.4%; P = 0.035). ST achieved higher cure rates than HD-PPI-TT in clarithromycin-resistant H. pylori strains (100% vs. 33.3%; P = 0.02). Treatment compliance was similar in the HD-PPI-TT and ST groups, although nausea and dizziness were more common in the ST group. CONCLUSIONS: Sequential therapy achieved better H. pylori eradication than HD-PPI-TT in patients with FD. However, the eradication rate for ST fell from 94.4% in per protocol to 85% in intention-to-treat analysis. Adverse effects might result in poorer compliance and compromise actual ST efficacy (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01888237).
29804294	Lansoprazole	Dizziness	0	0	0	0		Ten-day high-dose proton pump inhibitor triple therapy versus sequential therapy for Helicobacter pylori eradication.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Eradication rates of Helicobacter pylori following standard triple therapy are declining worldwide, but high-dose proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy (HD-PPI-TT) and sequential therapy (ST) have demonstrated higher cure rates. We aimed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of HD-PPI-TT and ST in H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia (FD). METHODS: One hundred and twenty H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia patients were randomized to receive 10-day HD-PPI-TT (60 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 10 days) or 10-day ST (30 mg lansoprazole/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 5 days followed by 30 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/400 mg metronidazole, each administered twice daily for 5 days). H. pylori status was determined in post-treatment week 4 by (14) C-urea breath test. Eradication and antibiotic resistance rates, dyspeptic symptoms, drug compliance, and adverse effects were compared. RESULTS: Intention-to-treat eradication rates were similar in the ST and HD-PPI-TT groups (85% vs. 80%; P = 0.47). However, the eradication rate was significantly higher following ST compared with HD-PPI-TT in per protocol analysis (94.4% vs. 81.4%; P = 0.035). ST achieved higher cure rates than HD-PPI-TT in clarithromycin-resistant H. pylori strains (100% vs. 33.3%; P = 0.02). Treatment compliance was similar in the HD-PPI-TT and ST groups, although nausea and dizziness were more common in the ST group. CONCLUSIONS: Sequential therapy achieved better H. pylori eradication than HD-PPI-TT in patients with FD. However, the eradication rate for ST fell from 94.4% in per protocol to 85% in intention-to-treat analysis. Adverse effects might result in poorer compliance and compromise actual ST efficacy (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01888237).
29804294	Lansoprazole	Nausea	0	0	0	0		Ten-day high-dose proton pump inhibitor triple therapy versus sequential therapy for Helicobacter pylori eradication.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Eradication rates of Helicobacter pylori following standard triple therapy are declining worldwide, but high-dose proton pump inhibitor-based triple therapy (HD-PPI-TT) and sequential therapy (ST) have demonstrated higher cure rates. We aimed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of HD-PPI-TT and ST in H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia (FD). METHODS: One hundred and twenty H. pylori-associated functional dyspepsia patients were randomized to receive 10-day HD-PPI-TT (60 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 10 days) or 10-day ST (30 mg lansoprazole/1 g amoxicillin, each administered twice daily for 5 days followed by 30 mg lansoprazole/500 mg clarithromycin/400 mg metronidazole, each administered twice daily for 5 days). H. pylori status was determined in post-treatment week 4 by (14) C-urea breath test. Eradication and antibiotic resistance rates, dyspeptic symptoms, drug compliance, and adverse effects were compared. RESULTS: Intention-to-treat eradication rates were similar in the ST and HD-PPI-TT groups (85% vs. 80%; P = 0.47). However, the eradication rate was significantly higher following ST compared with HD-PPI-TT in per protocol analysis (94.4% vs. 81.4%; P = 0.035). ST achieved higher cure rates than HD-PPI-TT in clarithromycin-resistant H. pylori strains (100% vs. 33.3%; P = 0.02). Treatment compliance was similar in the HD-PPI-TT and ST groups, although nausea and dizziness were more common in the ST group. CONCLUSIONS: Sequential therapy achieved better H. pylori eradication than HD-PPI-TT in patients with FD. However, the eradication rate for ST fell from 94.4% in per protocol to 85% in intention-to-treat analysis. Adverse effects might result in poorer compliance and compromise actual ST efficacy (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01888237).
29680269	Phenol	Edema	0	0	0	0		HPLC profile and antiedematogenic activity of Ximenia americana L. (Olacaceae) in mice models of skin inflammation.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-edematogenic activity of X. americana L. (HEXA) hydroethanolic extract in ear edema models (acute and chronic) induced by croton oil and by different phlogistic agents (arachidonic acid, capsaicin, phenol and histamine), identifying the possible anti-edematogenic mechanism. HEXA demonstrated a significant anti-edematogenic effect at concentrations of 100-500 mug/ear in ear edema induced by croton oil with higher inhibition of edema of 39.37. However, the concentrations of 100 and 200 mug/ear were taken as a standard, demonstrating the effect in the chronic model induced by croton oil with inhibition of 61.62% and 48.74%. In the AA-induced ear edema model, HEXA showed inhibition of: 24.45% and 32.31%; capsaicin inhibition of 72.72% and 47.57%; phenol inhibition of 34% and 20.1%; and histamine inhibition of 31.8% and 21.62%. Then, the results were showed that HEXA demonstrated an anti-edematogenic effect in acute and chronic inflammation models, demonstrating a probable mechanism of action by the inhibition or modulation of key mediators of the inflammatory process. The chemical profile and presence of flavonoids guaranteeing a profile of activity similar to natural drugs that act or modulate the production of mediators of inflammations.
29521457	Titanium	Muscular Diseases	1	0	0	0		Titanium hypersensitivity causing painful intra-abdominal oedema after staple-fixed inguinal hernia repair.	
29492982	Palladium	Ear Diseases	1	0	0	0		Palladium-induced granulomas analysed with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.	
29492982	Palladium	Granuloma	1	0	0	0		Palladium-induced granulomas analysed with inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.	
29471961	Tramadol	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Acute Kidney Injury due to granulomatous interstitial nephritis induced by tramadol administration.	
28041549	Diclofenac	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Cardiovascular risks of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment].	Non-aspirin non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are among the most widely used drugs. Current evidence supports that all NSAIDs increase the risk of heart failure and elevate blood pressure, whereas the risk of thrombotic events varies with the type of drug. Use of newer selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors has been associated with a substantial vascular risk but increasing concern also relates to traditional NSAIDs, in particular diclofenac. This review summarizes the current evidence regarding the cardiovascular safety of NSAIDs and presents recommendations for their use.
28041549	Diclofenac	Myocardial Ischemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Cardiovascular risks of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs treatment].	Non-aspirin non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are among the most widely used drugs. Current evidence supports that all NSAIDs increase the risk of heart failure and elevate blood pressure, whereas the risk of thrombotic events varies with the type of drug. Use of newer selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors has been associated with a substantial vascular risk but increasing concern also relates to traditional NSAIDs, in particular diclofenac. This review summarizes the current evidence regarding the cardiovascular safety of NSAIDs and presents recommendations for their use.
27855771	Sertraline	Cerebral Infarction	1	0	0	1		[Development of cerebral infarcts in a 17-year-old male treated with sertraline and lisdexamfetamine].	A 17-year-old male with ADHD who was treated with sertraline and lisdexamfetamine presented with transient episodes of speech impairment and right-sided hemiparesis preceded by headaches. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed three cerebral ischaemic lesions. Treatment was initiated with aspirin and discontinued with lisdexamfetamine. In the literature a causal relationship between treatment with central stimulants and the development of cerebrovascular events has not been substantiated. Vasospasm and paroxystic tachycardia may be associated with the event, but lisdexamfetamine and sertraline cannot be ruled out as risk factors.
30189827	Ketamine	Shock	1	1	0	0	0.0	Potential consequences of high-dose infusion of ketamine for refractory status epilepticus: case reports and systematic literature review.	Our goal was to provide comprehensive data on the effectiveness of ketamine in refractory status epilepticus (RSE) and to describe the potential consequences of long-term ketamine infusion. Ketamine, an N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, blocks excitatory pathways contributing to ongoing seizure. While ketamine use is standard in anaesthetic induction, no definitive protocol exists for its use in RSE, and little is known about its adverse effects in long-term, high-dose administration. We present two cases of RSE that responded rapidly to ketamine infusion, both with fatal outcomes secondary to metabolic acidosis and cardiovascular collapse. We performed a systematic review of the application and consequences of ketamine use in RSE. PubMed, Ovid, MEDLINE and PMC were searched for articles describing ketamine treatment for RSE according to a predetermined search strategy and inclusion criteria. The systematic review revealed wide discrepancies in ketamine dosing (infusion maintenance dose range 0.0075-10.5 mg/kg/hour), but good outcomes in medically managed RSE (75% of studies reported moderate or complete seizure control in adults, 62.5% in paediatrics). Additionally, literature review elucidated a potentially causal relationship between prolonged ketamine infusion and both cardiovascular and metabolic dysregulation. Ketamine is effective in RSE by antagonising excitotoxic NMDA receptors. However, there is high variability in ketamine dosing and scarce data on its safety in long-term infusion. Metabolic acidosis and haemodynamic instability associated with the use of long-term, high-dose ketamine infusions must be of concern to clinicians administering ketamine to critically ill patients.
30177658	Silicon Dioxide	Acute Lung Injury	0	1	0	0		Silicon Dioxide Nanoparticles Enhance Endotoxin-Induced Lung Injury in Mice.	Silicon dioxide nanoparticles (SiONPs), which are metal oxide nanoparticles, have been used in a wide variety of applications. In this study, acute pulmonary responses were examined after the intranasal instillation of SiONPs in mice primed with or without lipopolysaccharide (LPS, intranasal, 5 microg/mouse). The exposure to SiONPs increased the inflammatory cell counts and proinflammatory cytokines in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. SiONPs induced airway inflammation with increases in the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). The ratios of the inflammatory responses induced by the SiONPs were increased in the acute pulmonary disease model primed by LPS. Taken together, SiONPs exhibited toxicity to the respiratory system, which was associated with MAPK phosphorylation. In addition, the exposure to SiONPs exacerbated any existing inflammatory pulmonary diseases. These data showed the additive, as well as synergistic, interaction effects of SiONPs and LPS. We conclude that the exposure to SiONPs causes potential toxicity in humans, especially those with respiratory diseases.
29913424	Triptorelin Pamoate	Cryptorchidism	0	0	0	0		Postponement of canine puberty by neonatal administration of a long term release GnRH superagonist.	The objective of this study was to assess the efficiency and clinical safety of postnatal administration of a GnRH agonist on canine puberty postponement. Sexual steroids and histological gonadal changes were also described. Twenty-four littermate puppies were randomly assigned to: Deslorelin acetate 18.8 mg sc (DESLO; n = 12) or Placebo: sc (PLACE; n = 12) postnatally. The dogs were clinically and endocrinologically followed up until puberty when they were gonadectomized and their gonads histomorphometrically studied. Deslorelin postponed the age of puberty (72.7 +/- 4.8 vs. 35.8 +/- 1.9 weeks; P < 0.01) in these dogs. At the time of this submission, 3 DESLO dogs (108 weeks old) remain non-pubertal. All dogs concluded growing at a similar age (29.75 +/- 2.44 vs. 29.25 +/- 0.90 weeks; P > 0.1) independently of their group and pubertal status. None of the females had side effects while the 2 non pubertal DESLO males presented bilateral cryptorchydism. All the bitches ovulated at puberty (P > 0.1) and the 2 DESLO that were mated became pregnant. Deslorelin postponed basal serum sexual steroids up to puberty in both genders (P < 0.01). The histomorphometrical study of the testes revealed that the tubular diameter (P < 0.05), germinal epithelium height and composition (P < 0.01) were decreased in DESLO group. Ovarian structures did not differ between treatments (P > 0.05). It was concluded that postnatal deslorelin decreased sexual steroids reversibly postponing puberty in both genders without side effects in bitches and causing 2/6 of cryptorchydism and impairment of testicular histomorphometry in male dogs.
29913424	Triptorelin Pamoate	Dog Diseases	0	0	0	0		Postponement of canine puberty by neonatal administration of a long term release GnRH superagonist.	The objective of this study was to assess the efficiency and clinical safety of postnatal administration of a GnRH agonist on canine puberty postponement. Sexual steroids and histological gonadal changes were also described. Twenty-four littermate puppies were randomly assigned to: Deslorelin acetate 18.8 mg sc (DESLO; n = 12) or Placebo: sc (PLACE; n = 12) postnatally. The dogs were clinically and endocrinologically followed up until puberty when they were gonadectomized and their gonads histomorphometrically studied. Deslorelin postponed the age of puberty (72.7 +/- 4.8 vs. 35.8 +/- 1.9 weeks; P < 0.01) in these dogs. At the time of this submission, 3 DESLO dogs (108 weeks old) remain non-pubertal. All dogs concluded growing at a similar age (29.75 +/- 2.44 vs. 29.25 +/- 0.90 weeks; P > 0.1) independently of their group and pubertal status. None of the females had side effects while the 2 non pubertal DESLO males presented bilateral cryptorchydism. All the bitches ovulated at puberty (P > 0.1) and the 2 DESLO that were mated became pregnant. Deslorelin postponed basal serum sexual steroids up to puberty in both genders (P < 0.01). The histomorphometrical study of the testes revealed that the tubular diameter (P < 0.05), germinal epithelium height and composition (P < 0.01) were decreased in DESLO group. Ovarian structures did not differ between treatments (P > 0.05). It was concluded that postnatal deslorelin decreased sexual steroids reversibly postponing puberty in both genders without side effects in bitches and causing 2/6 of cryptorchydism and impairment of testicular histomorphometry in male dogs.
29907463	Piroxicam	Esophagitis	1	0	0	0		Esophagitis dissecans superficialis due to severe nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs toxicity.	
29533717	Hydrogen Peroxide	Bone Resorption	1	0	0	0		"Does the Use of a ""Walking Bleaching"" Technique Increase Bone Resorption Markers?"	"OBJECTIVE: This randomized clinical trial evaluated the effect of 35% hydrogen peroxide in comparison with 37% carbamide peroxide in a nonvital bleaching technique of ""walking bleaching"" (four sessions of treatment) on periodontal markers: nuclear factor kappa B-ligand (RANK-L-process of root resorption marker) and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta-inflammatory response marker). METHODS AND MATERIALS: Fifty volunteers presenting with discoloration of nonvital teeth and endodontic treatment in good condition participated. Fifty teeth were randomly divided into two study groups according to bleaching gel: HP = 35% hydrogen peroxide (n=25) and 37% carbamide peroxide (n=25). Nonvital bleaching was performed with a walking bleaching technique consisting of four sessions of bleach application. Gingival crevicular fluid samples were taken in order to quantify the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Samples were obtained from six periodontal sites for each bleached tooth: three vestibular and three palatine (mesial, middle, and distal) at seven time periods: baseline, after each of the four sessions of nonvital bleaching, at one week, and at one month after nonvital bleaching. Tooth color variations were analyzed in each session by VITA Bleachedguide 3D-MASTER (DeltaSGU). RESULTS: Significant increments in the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels were detected in each evaluated time compared with baseline ( p<0.05); however, no differences were detected between hydrogen peroxide and carbamide peroxide on increments of the biomarkers studied. The change of color was effective for both nonvital bleaching therapies ( p<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Nonvital bleaching induced a significant increment in the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels in periodontal tissues around bleached, nonvital teeth."
29533717	Urea	Bone Resorption	1	0	0	0		"Does the Use of a ""Walking Bleaching"" Technique Increase Bone Resorption Markers?"	"OBJECTIVE: This randomized clinical trial evaluated the effect of 35% hydrogen peroxide in comparison with 37% carbamide peroxide in a nonvital bleaching technique of ""walking bleaching"" (four sessions of treatment) on periodontal markers: nuclear factor kappa B-ligand (RANK-L-process of root resorption marker) and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta-inflammatory response marker). METHODS AND MATERIALS: Fifty volunteers presenting with discoloration of nonvital teeth and endodontic treatment in good condition participated. Fifty teeth were randomly divided into two study groups according to bleaching gel: HP = 35% hydrogen peroxide (n=25) and 37% carbamide peroxide (n=25). Nonvital bleaching was performed with a walking bleaching technique consisting of four sessions of bleach application. Gingival crevicular fluid samples were taken in order to quantify the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Samples were obtained from six periodontal sites for each bleached tooth: three vestibular and three palatine (mesial, middle, and distal) at seven time periods: baseline, after each of the four sessions of nonvital bleaching, at one week, and at one month after nonvital bleaching. Tooth color variations were analyzed in each session by VITA Bleachedguide 3D-MASTER (DeltaSGU). RESULTS: Significant increments in the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels were detected in each evaluated time compared with baseline ( p<0.05); however, no differences were detected between hydrogen peroxide and carbamide peroxide on increments of the biomarkers studied. The change of color was effective for both nonvital bleaching therapies ( p<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Nonvital bleaching induced a significant increment in the RANK-L and IL-1beta levels in periodontal tissues around bleached, nonvital teeth."
28552852	Fatty Acids, Omega-3	Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal	1	0	0	0		The Effect of n-3 PUFA on the Development of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm.	
30412107	gamma-Aminobutyric Acid	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	1	1.0	Hypothyroidism induced by phenytoin and gabapentin: A Case Report.	RATIONALE: Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are one of the causative drugs of drug-induced hypothyroidism. In most cases, AED-induced hypothyroidism is subclinical and indicated only by abnormalities of free thyroxine (T4) and/or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. Severe symptomatic hypothyroidism following AEDs is rarely reported in the literature. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 75-year-old man experienced neurologic symptoms including memory impairment, ataxic gait, sensory polyneuropathy and myopathy, lethargy, and edema of the face and lower extremities. He had been administered phenytoin and gabapentin for the treatment of symptomatic traumatic epilepsy 8 years before. DIAGNOSES: The patient had low free T4 (0.21 ng/dL) and high TSH (113.2 muIU/mL), which indicated hypothyroidism. Negative thyroid-related autoantibody tests and the lack of goiter excluded the possibility of Hashimoto disease. Phenytoin and/or gabapentin were strongly suspected as causing his hypothyroidism. INTERVENTION: The patient was treated with replacement therapy (levothyroxine 25 mug/day). OUTCOMES: His symptoms markedly and promptly improved alongside continued antiepileptic therapy. LESSONS: In this case, the patient's hypothyroidism was assumed to result from different mechanisms of the 2 AEDs leading to thyroid hormone reduction. AEDs can not only cause asymptomatic thyroid hormone abnormalities but also clinically observable hypothyroidism. Therefore, clinicians should be aware of the association between anticonvulsants and symptomatic hypothyroidism.
28420045	Omeprazole	Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic	1	0	0	0		Drug-induced lupus erythematosus mimicking lymphoma on (18)F-FDG-PET/CT.	
30364017	Suramin	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		Purinergic Antagonist Suramin Aggravates Myocarditis and Increases Mortality by Enhancing Parasitism, Inflammation, and Reactive Tissue Damage in Trypanosoma cruzi-Infected Mice.	Suramin (Sur) acts as an ecto-NTPDase inhibitor in Trypanosoma cruzi and a P2-purinoceptor antagonist in mammalian cells. Although the potent antitrypanosomal effect of Sur has been shown in vitro, limited evidence in vivo suggests that this drug can be dangerous to T. cruzi-infected hosts. Therefore, we investigated the dose-dependent effect of Sur-based chemotherapy in a murine model of Chagas disease. Seventy uninfected and T. cruzi-infected male C57BL/6 mice were randomized into five groups: SAL = uninfected; INF = infected; SR5, SR10, and SR20 = infected treated with 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg Sur. In addition to its effect on blood and heart parasitism, the impact of Sur-based chemotherapy on leucocytes myocardial infiltration, cytokine levels, antioxidant defenses, reactive tissue damage, and mortality was analyzed. Our results indicated that animals treated with 10 and 20 mg/kg Sur were disproportionally susceptible to T. cruzi, exhibiting increased parasitemia and cardiac parasitism (amastigote nests and parasite load (T. cruzi DNA)), intense protein, lipid and DNA oxidation, marked myocarditis, and mortality. Animals treated with Sur also exhibited reduced levels of nonprotein antioxidants. However, the upregulation of catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione-S-transferase was insufficient to counteract reactive tissue damage and pathological myocardial remodeling. It is still poorly understood whether Sur exerts a negative impact on the purinergic signaling of T. cruzi-infected host cells. However, our findings clearly demonstrated that through enhanced parasitism, inflammation, and reactive tissue damage, Sur-based chemotherapy contributes to aggravating myocarditis and increasing mortality rates in T. cruzi-infected mice, contradicting the supposed relevance attributed to this drug for the treatment of Chagas disease.
30121057	Oxygen	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Ginger ( Zingiber officinale ) prevents severe damage to the lungs due to hyperoxia and inflammation.	BACKGROUND/AIM: Hyperoxia- and inflammation-induced lung injury is an important cause of the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature infants. We aimed to ascertain the beneficial effects of ginger ( Zingiber officinale ) on rat pups exposed to hyperoxia and inflammation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-six newborn Wistar rats were randomly divided into 3 groups as the hyperoxia (95% O 2 ) + lipopolysaccharide (LPS) group, the hyperoxia + LPS + ginger-treated group, and the control/no treatment group (21% O 2 ). Pups in the hyperoxia + LPS + ginger group were administered oral ginger at a dose of 1000 mg/kg daily during the study period. Histopathologic, immunochemical (SMA and lamellar body), and biochemical evaluations including total antioxidant status (TAS), total oxidant status (TOS), malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and caspase-3 activities were performed. RESULTS: Better weight gain and survival rates were shown in the hyperoxia + LPS + ginger group (P < 0.05). In the histopathologic and immunochemical evaluation, severity of lung damage was significantly reduced in the hyperoxia + LPS + ginger group, as well as decreased apoptosis (ELISA for caspase-3) (P < 0.05). Tissue TAS levels were significantly protected, and TOS, MDA, and MPO levels were significantly lower in the hyperoxia + LPS + ginger group (P < 0.05). Tissue TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6 concentrations were significantly decreased in the ginger-treated group (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Ginger efficiently reduced the lung damage and protected the lungs from severe damage due to hyperoxia and inflammation. Therefore, ginger may be an alternative option for the treatment of BPD.
30107100	Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination	Depression	1	0	0	0		Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole-Induced Exacerbation of Anxiety and Depression.	
29956746	Glycerol	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Liposomal paclitaxel induces fewer hematopoietic and cardiovascular complications than bioequivalent doses of Taxol.	Paclitaxel (PTX) exhibits potent antineoplastic activity against various human malignancies; however, clinical application must overcome the inherent hydrophobicity of this molecule. The commercialized Taxol formulation utilizes Cremophor EL (CrEL)/ethanol as a solvent to stabilize and dispense PTX in an aqueous solution. However, adverse CrEL‑induced hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in ~30% of recipients, and 40% of patients receiving premedication may also experience this adverse effect. Therefore, the development of a CrEL-free delivery system is crucial, in order to fully exploit the therapeutic efficacy of PTX. In the present study, a novel liposomal PTX (lipo‑PTX) formulation was optimized with regards to encapsulation rate and long‑term stability, arriving at a molar constituent ratio of soybean phosphatidylcholine:cholesterol:N-(carbonyl-methoxy-poly-ethylene glycol 2000)‑1,2‑distearoyl‑sn-glycero‑3-phosphoethanolamine, sodium salt:PTX at 95:2:1:2. Comparable doses of lipo‑PTX and Taxol were bioequivalent in terms of therapeutic efficacy in xenograft tumor models. However, the systemic side effects, including hematopoietic toxicity, acute hypersensitivity reactions and cardiac irregularities, were significantly reduced in lipo‑PTX‑treated mice compared with those infused with reference formulations of PTX. In conclusion, the present study reported that lipo‑PTX exhibited a higher therapeutic index than clinical PTX formulations.
29948819	Fluorouracil	Esophageal and Gastric Varices	1	1	0	0	1.0	Esophagogastric varices were diagnosed in a non-cirrhotic liver case during long-term follow-up after oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy.	Oxaliplatin, a chemotherapeutic agent for colorectal cancer, has been associated with pathological evidence of sinusoidal endothelial injury in the liver. However, esophagogastric varices are a poorly recognized outcome of oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy. We report a 78-year-old man, whose past history of colon cancer was resection and treatment with mFOLFOX6 for 20 weeks, as adjuvant chemotherapy. After 3.5-year follow-up of the oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy, he was diagnosed with esophageal varices without liver dysfunction, indicating that the hepatotoxicity caused by oxaliplatin could be prolonged after its administration. Patients who have received oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy should be followed up carefully over the long term.
29948819	Leucovorin	Esophageal and Gastric Varices	1	1	0	0	1.0	Esophagogastric varices were diagnosed in a non-cirrhotic liver case during long-term follow-up after oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy.	Oxaliplatin, a chemotherapeutic agent for colorectal cancer, has been associated with pathological evidence of sinusoidal endothelial injury in the liver. However, esophagogastric varices are a poorly recognized outcome of oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy. We report a 78-year-old man, whose past history of colon cancer was resection and treatment with mFOLFOX6 for 20 weeks, as adjuvant chemotherapy. After 3.5-year follow-up of the oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy, he was diagnosed with esophageal varices without liver dysfunction, indicating that the hepatotoxicity caused by oxaliplatin could be prolonged after its administration. Patients who have received oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy should be followed up carefully over the long term.
29898417	Styrene	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	0	1	0	0		Biomarkers of early genotoxicity and oxidative stress for occupational risk assessment of exposure to styrene in the fibreglass reinforced plastic industry.	This study aimed to identify sensitive and not-invasive biomarkers of early genotoxic/oxidative effect for exposure to styrene in the fibreglass reinforced plastic manufacture. We studied 11 workers of a plastic manufacture using open molding process (A), 16 workers of a manufacture using closed process (B) and 12 controls. We evaluated geno/cytotoxic effects on buccal cells by Buccal Micronucleus Cytome (BMCyt) assay and genotoxic/oxidative effects on lymphocytes by Fpg-comet test. On A workers we also evaluated urinary 8oxoGua, 8oxodGuo and 8oxoGuo to investigate oxidative stress. Personal inhalation exposure to styrene was monitored by passive air sampling and GC/MS. Biological monitoring included urinary metabolites mandelic acid (MA) and phenylglyoxylic acid (PGA). The findings show higher styrene exposure, urinary MA + PGA levels and micronucleus frequency in manufacture A. Higher buccal karyolytic cell frequency vs controls were found in both exposed populations. We found in exposed workers, no induction of direct DNA damage but oxidative DNA damage. Fpg-comet assay and urinary oxidized guanine seem to be sensitive biomarkers of oxidative stress and BMCyt assay a good-not invasive biomarker of cyto-genotoxicity at target organ. The study, although limited by the small number of studied subjects, shows the usefulness of used biomarkers in risk assessment of styrene-exposed workers.
29887593	Oseltamivir	Rhabdomyolysis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Rhabdomyolysis Following Initiation of Antiviral Therapy with Oseltamivir.	BACKGROUND Tamiflu (oseltamivir phosphate) serves as prophylaxis and treatment of upper respiratory tract infections (URTI) and lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) caused by viruses of the Orthomyxovirus family. Here, we present a patient with URTI and negative rapid influenza diagnostic testing (RIDT), who developed rhabdomyolysis after being started on oseltamivir. CASE REPORT Our report describes a rare case of rhabdomyolysis after oseltamivir administration in a 53-year-old man with suspected influenza. We discuss the differential diagnosis for rhabdomyolysis to rule out other causes and review the literature on influenza-induced rhabdomyolysis. CONCLUSIONS Considering the serious consequences of rhabdomyolysis, care needs to be taken in routine prescription and use of oseltamivir. Although this is a rare adverse effect, our case highlights the need to be vigilant for uncommon adverse events with commonly used drugs.
29862427	Tamoxifen	Parkinson Disease, Secondary	1	0	0	0		Tamoxifen and the risk of Parkinsonism: a case/non-case study.	"BACKGROUND: Three studies have suggested a potential positive association between the use of tamoxifen in breast cancer and Parkinsonism, mainly after long-term exposure. OBJECTIVES: To explore this potential signal, we performed a case/non-case study using the World Health Organization Global Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) database, VigiBase(R) between 1979 and 2018. METHODS: Among women >/= 55 years, we measured the risk of reporting ""Parkinsonism"" compared with all other adverse drug reactions [as a reporting odds ratio (ROR 95% CI)] for tamoxifen compared to all other drugs or aromatase inhibitors. RESULTS: During the study period, 356 ICSRs of Parkinsonism reported with tamoxifen were identified. We failed to find a positive association between tamoxifen exposure and Parkinsonism in comparison with exposure to other drugs (ROR = 0.79; 95% CI 0.71-0.88) or aromatase inhibitors (ROR = 0.39; 95% CI 0.33-0.46). CONCLUSION: This study did not find evidence for Parkinsonism associated with tamoxifen."
29795058	Cyproheptadine	Serotonin Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Delayed Serotonin Syndrome in the Setting of a Mixed Fluoxetine and Serotonin Antagonist Overdose.	BACKGROUND Serotonin syndrome is a condition characterized predominantly by neuromuscular symptoms and altered thermoregulation in response to serotonergic overtone. Treatment is focused on withdrawal of serotonergic agents, which leads to resolution in the majority of cases. In the setting of serotonergic overdose, the onset of serotonin syndrome is usually within 4 to 13 h. Here, we report a case of delayed-onset serotonin syndrome in a patient who ingested a mixture of longer-acting serotonin agonists with serotonin antagonists. CASE REPORT A 24-year-old male was transferred to our medical intensive care unit with hypotension and altered mental status after an overdose of fluoxetine, cyproheptadine, trazodone, olanzapine, risperidone, and bupropion. After approximately 72 h, the patient developed symptoms of fever, lower leg clonus, hyperreflexia, and agitation. He was diagnosed with delayed-onset serotonin syndrome, which responded well to re-administration of cyproheptadine, leading to resolution of symptoms by day 5 of his stay. CONCLUSIONS In this present case, our patient presented with the longest reported delay in the onset of serotonin syndrome after intentional ingestion. This was likely secondary to co-ingestion of long-acting serotonin agonists with protective shorter-acting serotonin antagonists (cyproheptadine and olanzapine). Clinicians should consider delayed-onset serotonin syndrome when patients ingest longer-acting serotonergic agents with serotonin antagonists.
29681597	Antithrombin III	Postoperative Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Strategy for Cardiovascular Surgery in Patients with Antithrombin III Deficiency.	Antithrombin III (ATIII) deficiency is a rare disorder in which thrombosis can be induced by stimuli that do not usually lead to thrombus formation, including minor injuries and surgery. Therefore, patients with ATIII deficiency undergoing cardiovascular surgery that involves heparinization require careful perioperative management. We experienced five patients with ATIII deficiency who underwent cardiovascular surgery and were managed with ATIII replacement. By administration of ATIII concentrate, preoperative ATIII activity was maintained at >/=120% and postoperative ATIII activity at >/=80%. All five patients were treated successfully without postoperative complications such as hemorrhage or thrombosis. In patients with ATIII deficiency undergoing cardiac surgery, it is important to perform ATIII replacement to achieve preoperative ATIII activity >/=120% and postoperative ATIII activity >/=80%, while the activated clotting time (ACT) is maintained at >400 seconds during cardiopulmonary bypass. In addition, long-term postoperative anticoagulant therapy is necessary in hereditary ATIII deficiency patients with a history of thrombosis.
29444344	Omalizumab	Serum Sickness	1	0	0	0		Serum sickness-like reaction in a pediatric patient using omalizumab for chronic spontaneous urticaria.	
29413509	Everolimus	Lung Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Evaluation of the clinical characteristics of everolimus-induced lung injury and determination of associated risk factors.	BACKGROUND: Everolimus (ERL), a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, has been used for the management of several advanced cancers. ERL frequently causes lung injury, although the clinical and radiographic features have not been clarified. The aim of this study was to assess the clinical features of ERL-induced lung injury and determine the associated risk factors. METHODS: This single-center, retrospective study included 45 patients (29 men, 16 women; age, 12-78 years) who had received ERL at our hospital between August 2010 and March 2016. Drug-induced lung injury (DILI) was diagnosed using the Japanese Respiratory Society criteria. We obtained information regarding the clinical course, symptoms, clinical findings, blood test findings, and chest computed tomography findings from the patients' medical records. Risk factors for DILI onset were investigated using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. RESULTS: Fifteen patients (33%) were diagnosed with DILI. The median time from ERL administration to DILI onset was 64 days. High Serum Krebs von den Lungen-6 (KL-6) levels and a low estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) before ERL administration were found to be significant risk factors for DILI. KL-6 and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were significantly elevated at the onset of DILI. All 15 patients recovered; 11 were without steroids. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that patients with high KL-6 levels and a low eGFR at baseline are at increased risk of ERL-induced lung injury. In addition, KL-6 and LDH may be useful biomarkers of ERL-induced lung injury.
29315748	Infliximab	Folliculitis	1	0	0	0		Tumour necrosis factor-alpha-inhibitor-induced neutrophilic folliculitis presenting with strong lesional expression of interleukin-36gamma.	
29134575	Dimethyl Sulfoxide	Muscular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Impact of intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration.	Interpretation on the effectiveness of potential substances to enhance skeletal muscle regeneration is difficult if an inappropriate vehicle is administered, since vehicle administration can directly enhance or suppress regenerative capacity. In the current study, intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration (regenerative vs. remodeling) were investigated. Tested vehicles included lipid-soluble [olive oil, (0.1, 1, 5, and 40%) dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and 40% propylene glycol (PG)] and water-soluble [0.9% NaCl, PBS, 0.1% ethanol, and distilled water]. Skeletal muscle regeneration was induced by 1.2% BaCl(2) injection to the tibialis anterior muscle of 10-week-old C57BL/6 male mice. Histological features, skeletal muscle stem cell activity, regenerating muscle fiber formation, angiogenesis, extracellular matrix remodeling, and macrophage infiltration were examined. The results revealed repeated administration of 40% DMSO and 40% PG causes significant recurrent muscle injury, which is pronounced during the remodeling phase compared to the regenerative phase. These findings were supported by (1) massive infiltration of F4/80(+) macrophages; (2) significant increase of skeletal muscle stem cell re-activation and nascent regenerating muscle fiber formation; (3) excess fibrous formation; and (4) decreased regenerating muscle fiber cross-sectional area. These deleterious effects were comparable to 2% trypsin (degenerative substance) administration and less pronounced with a single administration. Nevertheless, recurrent muscle injury was still presented with 5% DMSO administration but it can be alleviated when 0.1% DMSO was administered during the remodeling phase. In contrast, none of the tested vehicles enhanced regenerative capacity compared with IGF-1 administration. Altogether, intramuscular administration of vehicle containing high concentration of DMSO or PG could impair skeletal muscle regenerative capacity and potentially affect validation of the investigational substance.
29134575	Propylene Glycol	Muscular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Impact of intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration.	Interpretation on the effectiveness of potential substances to enhance skeletal muscle regeneration is difficult if an inappropriate vehicle is administered, since vehicle administration can directly enhance or suppress regenerative capacity. In the current study, intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration (regenerative vs. remodeling) were investigated. Tested vehicles included lipid-soluble [olive oil, (0.1, 1, 5, and 40%) dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and 40% propylene glycol (PG)] and water-soluble [0.9% NaCl, PBS, 0.1% ethanol, and distilled water]. Skeletal muscle regeneration was induced by 1.2% BaCl(2) injection to the tibialis anterior muscle of 10-week-old C57BL/6 male mice. Histological features, skeletal muscle stem cell activity, regenerating muscle fiber formation, angiogenesis, extracellular matrix remodeling, and macrophage infiltration were examined. The results revealed repeated administration of 40% DMSO and 40% PG causes significant recurrent muscle injury, which is pronounced during the remodeling phase compared to the regenerative phase. These findings were supported by (1) massive infiltration of F4/80(+) macrophages; (2) significant increase of skeletal muscle stem cell re-activation and nascent regenerating muscle fiber formation; (3) excess fibrous formation; and (4) decreased regenerating muscle fiber cross-sectional area. These deleterious effects were comparable to 2% trypsin (degenerative substance) administration and less pronounced with a single administration. Nevertheless, recurrent muscle injury was still presented with 5% DMSO administration but it can be alleviated when 0.1% DMSO was administered during the remodeling phase. In contrast, none of the tested vehicles enhanced regenerative capacity compared with IGF-1 administration. Altogether, intramuscular administration of vehicle containing high concentration of DMSO or PG could impair skeletal muscle regenerative capacity and potentially affect validation of the investigational substance.
29134575	Trypsin	Muscular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Impact of intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration.	Interpretation on the effectiveness of potential substances to enhance skeletal muscle regeneration is difficult if an inappropriate vehicle is administered, since vehicle administration can directly enhance or suppress regenerative capacity. In the current study, intramuscular administration of lipid-soluble and water-soluble vehicles into regenerating muscle at the distinct phases of skeletal muscle regeneration (regenerative vs. remodeling) were investigated. Tested vehicles included lipid-soluble [olive oil, (0.1, 1, 5, and 40%) dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and 40% propylene glycol (PG)] and water-soluble [0.9% NaCl, PBS, 0.1% ethanol, and distilled water]. Skeletal muscle regeneration was induced by 1.2% BaCl(2) injection to the tibialis anterior muscle of 10-week-old C57BL/6 male mice. Histological features, skeletal muscle stem cell activity, regenerating muscle fiber formation, angiogenesis, extracellular matrix remodeling, and macrophage infiltration were examined. The results revealed repeated administration of 40% DMSO and 40% PG causes significant recurrent muscle injury, which is pronounced during the remodeling phase compared to the regenerative phase. These findings were supported by (1) massive infiltration of F4/80(+) macrophages; (2) significant increase of skeletal muscle stem cell re-activation and nascent regenerating muscle fiber formation; (3) excess fibrous formation; and (4) decreased regenerating muscle fiber cross-sectional area. These deleterious effects were comparable to 2% trypsin (degenerative substance) administration and less pronounced with a single administration. Nevertheless, recurrent muscle injury was still presented with 5% DMSO administration but it can be alleviated when 0.1% DMSO was administered during the remodeling phase. In contrast, none of the tested vehicles enhanced regenerative capacity compared with IGF-1 administration. Altogether, intramuscular administration of vehicle containing high concentration of DMSO or PG could impair skeletal muscle regenerative capacity and potentially affect validation of the investigational substance.
28965779	Quetiapine Fumarate	Pregnancy Complications	1	0	0	0		Pregnancy exposure to quetiapine - Therapeutic drug monitoring in maternal blood, amniotic fluid and cord blood and obstetrical outcomes.	RATIONALE: This prospective study is the first to measure and correlate quetiapine concentrations in maternal blood, amniotic fluid and umbilical cord blood to account for the distribution of quetiapine. METHODS: Concentrations of quetiapine are quantified in seven mother infant pairs at the time of delivery. Data are provided as median values, first (Q1) and third (Q3) quartiles and ranges. To account for the penetration ratio, the concentration of quetiapine in amniotic fluid and cord blood was divided by maternal concentrations. Correlations between daily dosage, maternal serum and umbilical cord blood concentrations were computed for seven patients while calculations for amniotic fluid were only available for six mother-infant pairs. RESULTS: The median daily dosage of quetiapine was 300mg (Q1: 300mg, Q3: 600mg, range 200-800mg). There was a strong and significant correlation between maternal serum and cord blood concentrations (r=0.893, p=0.007). The median penetration ratio into fetal circulation was 0.18 (Q1: 0.16, Q3: 0.32; range 0.13-0.42), suggesting a low penetration. The median penetration ratio into amniotic fluid was 0.44 (Q1: 0.15, Q3: 0.96; range 0.09-1.70). CONCLUSIONS: Quetiapine concentrations in amniotic fluid and cord blood give evidence that quetiapine is constantly accessible to the fetus with a relatively low penetration ratio. A high correlation between maternal serum and umbilical cord blood concentrations highlights a predictive role of quantifying drug concentrations in maternal serum for assessing drug concentrations in fetal circulation. Findings support the important role of therapeutic drug monitoring in supporting the efficacy and safety of psychopharmacological treatment strategies in highly vulnerable populations.
28965779	Quetiapine Fumarate	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	0	0	0		Pregnancy exposure to quetiapine - Therapeutic drug monitoring in maternal blood, amniotic fluid and cord blood and obstetrical outcomes.	RATIONALE: This prospective study is the first to measure and correlate quetiapine concentrations in maternal blood, amniotic fluid and umbilical cord blood to account for the distribution of quetiapine. METHODS: Concentrations of quetiapine are quantified in seven mother infant pairs at the time of delivery. Data are provided as median values, first (Q1) and third (Q3) quartiles and ranges. To account for the penetration ratio, the concentration of quetiapine in amniotic fluid and cord blood was divided by maternal concentrations. Correlations between daily dosage, maternal serum and umbilical cord blood concentrations were computed for seven patients while calculations for amniotic fluid were only available for six mother-infant pairs. RESULTS: The median daily dosage of quetiapine was 300mg (Q1: 300mg, Q3: 600mg, range 200-800mg). There was a strong and significant correlation between maternal serum and cord blood concentrations (r=0.893, p=0.007). The median penetration ratio into fetal circulation was 0.18 (Q1: 0.16, Q3: 0.32; range 0.13-0.42), suggesting a low penetration. The median penetration ratio into amniotic fluid was 0.44 (Q1: 0.15, Q3: 0.96; range 0.09-1.70). CONCLUSIONS: Quetiapine concentrations in amniotic fluid and cord blood give evidence that quetiapine is constantly accessible to the fetus with a relatively low penetration ratio. A high correlation between maternal serum and umbilical cord blood concentrations highlights a predictive role of quantifying drug concentrations in maternal serum for assessing drug concentrations in fetal circulation. Findings support the important role of therapeutic drug monitoring in supporting the efficacy and safety of psychopharmacological treatment strategies in highly vulnerable populations.
28534245	Flecainide	Ventricular Dysfunction, Left	1	0	0	0		Flecainide-Induced Left Ventricular Dysfunction: Fact or Fiction?	
30103263	Insulin	Pregnancy Complications, Cardiovascular	0	0	0	0		Treatments for women with gestational diabetes mellitus: an overview of Cochrane systematic reviews.	BACKGROUND: Successful treatments for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) have the potential to improve health outcomes for women with GDM and their babies. OBJECTIVES: To provide a comprehensive synthesis of evidence from Cochrane systematic reviews of the benefits and harms associated with interventions for treating GDM on women and their babies. METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (5 January 2018) for reviews of treatment/management for women with GDM. Reviews of pregnant women with pre-existing diabetes were excluded.Two overview authors independently assessed reviews for inclusion, quality (AMSTAR; ROBIS), quality of evidence (GRADE), and extracted data. MAIN RESULTS: We included 14 reviews. Of these, 10 provided relevant high-quality and low-risk of bias data (AMSTAR and ROBIS) from 128 randomised controlled trials (RCTs), 27 comparisons, 17,984 women, 16,305 babies, and 1441 children. Evidence ranged from high- to very low-quality (GRADE). Only one effective intervention was found for treating women with GDM.EffectiveLifestyle versus usual careLifestyle intervention versus usual care probably reduces large-for-gestational age (risk ratio (RR) 0.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.50 to 0.71; 6 RCTs, N = 2994; GRADE moderate-quality).PromisingNo evidence for any outcome for any comparison could be classified to this category.Ineffective or possibly harmful Lifestyle versus usual careLifestyle intervention versus usual care probably increases the risk of induction of labour (IOL) suggesting possible harm (average RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.99 to 1.46; 4 RCTs, N = 2699; GRADE moderate-quality).Exercise versus controlExercise intervention versus control for return to pre-pregnancy weight suggested ineffectiveness (body mass index, BMI) MD 0.11 kg/m(2), 95% CI -1.04 to 1.26; 3 RCTs, N = 254; GRADE moderate-quality).Insulin versus oral therapyInsulin intervention versus oral therapy probably increases the risk of IOL suggesting possible harm (RR 1.3, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.75; 3 RCTs, N = 348; GRADE moderate-quality).Probably ineffective or harmful interventionsInsulin versus oral therapyFor insulin compared to oral therapy there is probably an increased risk of the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (RR 1.89, 95% CI 1.14 to 3.12; 4 RCTs, N = 1214; GRADE moderate-quality).InconclusiveLifestyle versus usual careThe evidence for childhood adiposity kg/m(2) (RR 0.91, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.11; 3 RCTs, N = 767; GRADE moderate-quality) and hypoglycaemia was inconclusive (average RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.65 to 1.52; 6 RCTs, N = 3000; GRADE moderate-quality).Exercise versus controlThe evidence for caesarean section (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.63 to 1.16; 5 RCTs, N = 316; GRADE moderate quality) and perinatal death or serious morbidity composite was inconclusive (RR 0.56, 95% CI 0.12 to 2.61; 2 RCTs, N = 169; GRADE moderate-quality).Insulin versus oral therapyThe evidence for the following outcomes was inconclusive: pre-eclampsia (RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.52; 10 RCTs, N = 2060), caesarean section (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.14; 17 RCTs, N = 1988), large-for-gestational age (average RR 1.01, 95% CI 0.76 to 1.35; 13 RCTs, N = 2352), and perinatal death or serious morbidity composite (RR 1.03; 95% CI 0.84 to 1.26; 2 RCTs, N = 760). GRADE assessment was moderate-quality for these outcomes.Insulin versus dietThe evidence for perinatal mortality was inconclusive (RR 0.74, 95% CI 0.41 to 1.33; 4 RCTs, N = 1137; GRADE moderate-quality).Insulin versus insulinThe evidence for insulin aspart versus lispro for risk of caesarean section was inconclusive (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.09; 3 RCTs, N = 410; GRADE moderate quality).No conclusions possibleNo conclusions were possible for: lifestyle versus usual care (perineal trauma, postnatal depression, neonatal adiposity, number of antenatal visits/admissions); diet versus control (pre-eclampsia, caesarean section); myo-inositol versus placebo (hypoglycaemia); metformin versus glibenclamide (hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, pregnancy-induced hypertension, death or serious morbidity composite, insulin versus oral therapy (development of type 2 diabetes); intensive management versus routine care (IOL, large-for-gestational age); post- versus pre-prandial glucose monitoring (large-for-gestational age). The evidence ranged from moderate-, low- and very low-quality. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Currently there is insufficient high-quality evidence about the effects on health outcomes of relevance for women with GDM and their babies for many of the comparisons in this overview comparing treatment interventions for women with GDM. Lifestyle changes (including as a minimum healthy eating, physical activity and self-monitoring of blood sugar levels) was the only intervention that showed possible health improvements for women and their babies. Lifestyle interventions may result in fewer babies being large. Conversely, in terms of harms, lifestyle interventions may also increase the number of inductions. Taking insulin was also associated with an increase in hypertensive disorders, when compared to oral therapy. There was very limited information on long-term health and health services costs. Further high-quality research is needed.
29958183	Diazoxide	Ketosis	1	1	0	1	1.0	Diazoxide toxicity in a child with persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy: mixed hyperglycemic hyperosmolar coma and ketoacidosis.	BACKGROUND: Persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy (PHHI), also known as congenital hyperinsulinism, has been known to go into spontaneous remission, with patients developing diabetes in later life. A temporary phase of hyperglycemia is, however, rarely reported. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 16-month-old child, a known case of diazoxide responsive PHHI, presenting with mixed hyperglycemic hyperosmolar coma and ketoacidosis with rhabdomyolysis while on diazoxide treatment. The patient required temporary cessation of diazoxide and initiation of insulin infusion, followed by a relapse of hypoglycemia again necessitating diazoxide therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Hyperosmolar coma with ketoacidosis is a rare side-effect of diazoxide therapy, documented even in patients with persistent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia of infancy.
29949582	Hyaluronic Acid	Optic Nerve Diseases	0	0	0	0		A murine glaucoma model induced by rapid in vivo photopolymerization of hyaluronic acid glycidyl methacrylate.	Glaucoma is an optic neuropathy commonly associated with elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) resulting in progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and optic nerve degeneration, leading to blindness. New therapeutic approaches that better preserve the visual field by promoting survival and health of RGCs are highly needed since RGC death occurs despite good IOP control in glaucoma patients. We have developed a novel approach to reliably induce chronic IOP elevation in mouse using a photopolymerizable biomatrix, hyaluronic acid glycidyl methacrylate. This is achieved by rapid in vivo crosslinking of the biomatrix at the iridocorneal angle by a flash of ultraviolet A (UVA) light to impede the aqueous outflow pathway with a controllable manner. Sustained IOP elevation was induced after a single manipulation and was maintained at ~45% above baseline for >4 weeks. Significant thinning of the inner retina and ~35% reduction in RGCs and axons was noted within one month of IOP elevation. Optic nerve degeneration showed positive correlation with cumulative IOP elevation. Activation of astrocytes and microglia appeared to be an early event in response to IOP elevation preceding detectable RGC and axon loss. Attenuated glial reactivity was noted at later stage where significant RGC/axon loss had occurred suggesting astrocytes and microglia may play different roles over the course of glaucomatous degeneration. This novel murine glaucoma model is reproducible and displays cellular changes that recapitulate several pathophysiological features of glaucoma.
29921625	Cisplatin	Azoospermia	0	0	0	0		Genomic integrity in the male germ line: evidence in support of the disposable soma hypothesis.	The Big Blue lambdaSelect-cII selection system has been employed along with whole-exome sequencing to examine the susceptibility of the male germ line to mutation in two challenging situations (i) exposure to a chemotherapeutic regime including bleomycin, etoposide and cis-platinum (BEP) and (ii) the ageing process. A 3-week exposure to BEP induced complete azoospermia associated with a loss of developing germ cells and extensive vacuolization of Sertoli cell cytoplasm. Following cessation of treatment, spermatozoa first appeared in the caput epididymis after 6 weeks and by 12 weeks motile spermatozoa could be recovered from the cauda, although the count (P < 0.001) and motility (P < 0.01) of these cells were significantly reduced and superoxide generation was significantly elevated (P < 0.001). Despite this increase in free radical generation, no evidence of chromatin instability was detected in these spermatozoa. Furthermore, embryos obtained from females mated at this 12-week time point showed no evidence of an increased mutational load. Similarly, progressive ageing of Big Blue mice had no impact on the quality of the spermatozoa, fertility or mutation frequency in the offspring despite a significant increase in the mutational load carried by somatic tissues such as the liver (P < 0.05). We conclude that the male germ line is highly resistant to mutation in keeping with the disposable soma hypothesis, which posits that genetic integrity in the germ cells will be maintained at the expense of the soma, in light of the former's sentinel position in safeguarding the stability of the genome.
28378756	Fish Oils	Depression	1	0	0	0		Elucidating fish oil-induced milk fat depression in dairy sheep: Milk somatic cell transcriptome analysis.	In this study, RNA sequencing was used to obtain a comprehensive profile of the transcriptomic changes occurring in the mammary gland of lactating sheep suffering from fish oil-induced milk fat depression (FO-MFD). The milk somatic cell transcriptome analysis of four control and four FO-MFD ewes generated an average of 42 million paired-end reads per sample. In both conditions, less than 220 genes constitute approximately 89% of the total counts. These genes, which are considered as core genes, were mainly involved in cytoplasmic ribosomal proteins and electron transport chain pathways. In total, 117 genes were upregulated, and 96 genes were downregulated in FO-MFD samples. Functional analysis of the latter indicated a downregulation of genes involved in the SREBP signaling pathway (e.g., ACACA, ACSL, and ACSS) and Gene Ontology terms related to lipid metabolism and lipid biosynthetic processes. Integrated interpretation of upregulated genes indicated enrichment in genes encoding plasma membrane proteins and proteins regulating protein kinase activity. Overall, our results indicate that FO-MFD is associated with the downregulation of key genes involved in the mammary lipogenesis process. In addition, the results also suggest that this syndrome may be related to upregulation of other genes implicated in signal transduction and codification of transcription factors.
30365592	Clindamycin	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Treatment of Moderate Acne Vulgaris in Fitzpatrick Skin Type V or VI: Efficacy and Tolerability of Fixed Combination Clindamycin Phosphate 1.2%/Benzoyl Peroxide 3.75% Gel.	BACKGROUND: Acne vulgaris (acne) is the most common skin disease in patients who have darker skin with most frequent sequelae of post inflammatory hyperpigmentation (PIH). METHODS: Open label study in 20 patients (mean age 32 years) with Fitzpatrick Skin Type V or VI and with moderate facial acne treated with clindamycin phosphate 1.2%/benzoyl peroxide 3.75% gel (CL-BP 3.75%) once-daily for 16 weeks. Assessments included improvement in Investigator Global Assessment (IGA) of acne severity, PIH severity and distribution, and lesion count reduction. Adverse events (AEs) were assessed throughout. RESULTS: Significant reductions in inflammatory, noninflammatory and total lesions occurred within the first 4 weeks compared to baseline. At week 16, percent changes from baseline were 76%, 62%, and 71%, respectively (all P less than equal to .0002). There was also a significant reduction in IGA to week 16 (P equals.0001); 70% (N=14) of patients were 'clear' or 'almost clear' and all patients experienced at least a 1-grade improvement in IGA. Additionally, PIH severity and distribution were also significantly reduced by week 16. In 40% of patients PIH severity was rated as 'none' or 'slight'; 19 (95%) and 15 (75%) of patients experienced at least a 1-grade improvement in PIH severity or distribution. Ten patients experienced a total of 21 AEs. There were no serious AEs. Only one AE was possibly related to study drug (facial tattoo tightening) and resolved with no residual effects at the end of the study. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with Fitzpatrick Skin Type V and VI treated with clindamycin phosphate 1.2%/ benzoyl peroxide 3.75% gel experienced significant reductions in facial acne severity, lesion counts and PIH severity/distribution. Tolerability was excellent. J Drugs Dermatol. 2018;17(10):1107-1112.
30311469	Vancomycin	Postoperative Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Postoperative Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis with Intracameral Vancomycin.	
30304106	Metformin	Reproductive Tract Infections	0	0	0	0		Dapagliflozin versus saxagliptin as add-on therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin.	OBJECTIVE: This analysis compared the efficacy and safety of the sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, dapagliflozin, and the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) inhibitor, saxagliptin, both added on to metformin. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a post-hoc analysis from a double-blind, randomized, 24-week clinical trial (NCT01606007) of patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) inadequately controlled with metformin. We compared the dapagliflozin 10 mg (n = 179) and saxagliptin 5 mg (n = 176) treatment arms. RESULTS: Dapagliflozin showed significantly greater mean reductions versus saxagliptin in HbA1c (difference versus saxagliptin [95% CI]: -0.32% [-0.54, -0.10]; p < 0.005), fasting plasma glucose (-0.98 [-1.42, -0.54] mmol/L; p < 0.0001), body weight (-2.39 [-3.08, -1.71] kg; p < 0.0001) and systolic blood pressure (SBP) (-3.89 [-6.15, -1.63] mmHg; p < 0.001). More dapagliflozintreated than saxagliptin-treated patients achieved the composite endpoint of HbA1c reduction >/= 0.5%, weight loss >/= 2 kg, SBP reduction >/= 2 mmHg and no major/minor hypoglycemia (24% versus 7%). No major events of hypoglycemia were reported. More patients on dapagliflozin (6%) versus saxagliptin (0.6%) experienced genital infections. CONCLUSION: Dapagliflozin demonstrated greater glycemic efficacy than saxagliptin with additional benefits on weight and SBP, and the safety profile was consistent with previous studies.
30303086	Fluconazole	Hematoma	1	0	0	0		Bleeding interaction between fluconazole and warfarin.	
30303086	Fluconazole	Pharyngeal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Bleeding interaction between fluconazole and warfarin.	
30273192	Dexamethasone	Stroke	1	1	0	0	0.0	Increased Risk of Ischemic Stroke in Multiple Myeloma Associated With Lenalidomide Treatment: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to illustrate the increased risk of ischemic stroke in the context of multiple myeloma (MM) under treatment with lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone. METHODS: This is a case report and literature review. RESULTS: A 62-year-old woman diagnosed with relapsed MM under treatment with lenalidomide and dexamethasone presented with acute onset disorientation, disturbed behavior, and aphasia. Cranial computed tomography scan revealed an acute cerebral infarction in the left middle cerebral artery territory, and brain magnetic resonance imaging showed additional silent ischemic lesions in other arterial territories. Common stroke etiologies were excluded after an extensive study, leading to a final diagnosis of cerebral infarction of uncommon cause probably related to MM and treatment with lenalidomide plus dexamethasone. A literature review provided 84 reports from the license holder, 2 more cases of stroke in patients with MM receiving lenalidomide and a recurrent stroke in a patient experiencing polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes (POEMS syndrome) treated with lenalidomide. CONCLUSIONS: Our case exemplifies the need to raise awareness about the risk of ischemic stroke associated with MM that might be increased by treatment with lenalidomide and to establish consistent recommendations regarding thromboprophylaxis to reduce comorbidities and mortality in these patients.
30273192	Lenalidomide	Stroke	1	1	0	0	0.0	Increased Risk of Ischemic Stroke in Multiple Myeloma Associated With Lenalidomide Treatment: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to illustrate the increased risk of ischemic stroke in the context of multiple myeloma (MM) under treatment with lenalidomide combined with dexamethasone. METHODS: This is a case report and literature review. RESULTS: A 62-year-old woman diagnosed with relapsed MM under treatment with lenalidomide and dexamethasone presented with acute onset disorientation, disturbed behavior, and aphasia. Cranial computed tomography scan revealed an acute cerebral infarction in the left middle cerebral artery territory, and brain magnetic resonance imaging showed additional silent ischemic lesions in other arterial territories. Common stroke etiologies were excluded after an extensive study, leading to a final diagnosis of cerebral infarction of uncommon cause probably related to MM and treatment with lenalidomide plus dexamethasone. A literature review provided 84 reports from the license holder, 2 more cases of stroke in patients with MM receiving lenalidomide and a recurrent stroke in a patient experiencing polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes (POEMS syndrome) treated with lenalidomide. CONCLUSIONS: Our case exemplifies the need to raise awareness about the risk of ischemic stroke associated with MM that might be increased by treatment with lenalidomide and to establish consistent recommendations regarding thromboprophylaxis to reduce comorbidities and mortality in these patients.
30235378	Hydrogen Peroxide	Hyperpigmentation	0	0	0	0		Managing Seborrheic Keratosis: Evolving Strategies and Optimal Therapeutic Outcomes.	Seborrheic keratosis (SK) is the most common skin tumor seen by dermatologists in everyday practice. Although the lesions are mostly benign, many patients still elect to have asymptomatic SK removed. The historical standards of treatment are cryosurgery and electrocautery, two surgical options that are effective at lesion removal but have high rates of postoperative adverse events such as treatment-site scarring and pigmentary alterations. The cosmetic outcomes of SK treatment modalities are of keen interest to dermatologists, as the American population becomes increasingly more diverse. In this article, the inclusion of darker Fitzpatrick skin types into clinical studies investigating post-treatment side effects of SK therapy is reviewed. The recent approval of a 40% hydrogen peroxide topical formulation is discussed in light of these issues, and several non-invasive topical treatments that optimize cosmetic outcomes of SK lesion removal are highlighted. Finally, treatment strategies aimed at reducing cost and minimizing the burden of adverse sequelae are provided. J Drugs Dermatol. 2018;17(9):933-940.
30234559	Levetiracetam	Seizures	1	1	0	0	0.0	Levetiracetam-Induced Seizure Aggravation in Patients With Focal Cortical Dysplasia.	"OBJECTIVES: The choice of antiepileptic drug is typically based on seizure type, and there is no evidence for superior effectiveness or potential deterioration of particular antiepileptic drug in specific etiologic subgroups. The aim of the study was to identify etiological factor(s) associated with increased risk of seizure aggravation with levetiracetam (LEV). METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 139 patients treated with LEV was performed. Seizure aggravation was defined as a 100% or greater increase in seizures frequency, which occurred within 1 month of drug introduction. RESULTS: Five patients who fulfilled the selection criteria were identified. Seizure aggravation occurred with low doses (500-1000 mg) of LEV. In addition to increased frequency and duration, 2 patients developed new seizure types. Withdrawal of LEV resulted in seizure return to background frequency in all patients. Four of 5 patients have distinctive magnetic resonance imaging finding of focal cortical dysplasia. No patients with paradoxical effect of LEV were detected in the idiopathic epilepsy group or other types of symptomatic epilepsies. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that LEV may possibly induce seizure exacerbation in a subset of patients with focal cortical dysplasia-related epilepsy, although large studies are needed to establish the relation. Underlying causes of epilepsy could impact the treatment choice because electroclinical semiology might be the ""final common pathway"" of different epileptogenic mechanisms in diverse etiologies."
30212012	Valproic Acid	Urination Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Valproic acid toxicity due to misinterpretation of plasma levels: increase in unbound fraction caused by hypoalbuminaemia and renal dysfunction].	BACKGROUND: Valproic acid is one of the most widely prescribed drugs for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder. As only the unbound fraction of a medicinal product is pharmacologically active, in some strong protein-bound psychotropic drugs such as valproic acid and phenytoin, a rise in this fraction can lead to severe toxicity. CASE DESCRIPTION: A 65-year-old male with a type 1 bipolar disorder developed a number of neurological symptoms including sluggishness, muscle weakness, difficulty in walking and disorders of micturition after his mood stabiliser was changed to valproic acid. Recognition of drug toxicity was delayed as his total plasma valproic acid levels were within the therapeutic range. Later it became apparent that the patient had toxic unbound valproic acid levels due to hypoalbuminaemia and impaired renal function. CONCLUSION: Clinicians should always consider drug toxicity in patients who show neurological symptoms and use highly protein-bound psychotropic drugs, even if the total plasma concentration of the drug is in the therapeutic range.
30204598	Mirtazapine	Hallucinations	1	1	0	1	0.0	A Case of Musical Hallucinations Related to Mirtazapine.	Musical hallucinations (MHs) are relatively uncommon phenomena sometimes encountered in older patients, especially older women. They usually involve popular, overlearned music, either entire songs or repetitive snippets. While MHs are most commonly associated with hearing loss, they may occur in a variety of psychiatric, neurologic, and iatrogenic conditions. We report a 91-year-old man whose MHs were causally related to the antidepressant mirtazapine. Although mirtazapine is generally well tolerated, it may rarely cause MHs or other psychotic symptoms.
30177038	Protein C	Postpartum Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Activated protein C as disease-modifying therapy in antenatal preeclampsia: An open-label, single arm safety and efficacy trial.	OBJECTIVES: Preeclampsia is characterized by maternal systemic inflammation and coagulation activation, akin to the sepsis syndrome. Recombinant human activated protein C (rhAPC; drotrecogin alfa [activated]) may modify disease progression to safely prolong pregnancies and improve perinatal outcomes. Both maternal and perinatal risks are highest remote from term. STUDY DESIGN: Open-label, single arm safety and efficacy trial of rhAPC in consenting pregnant women with severe early-onset preeclampsia. Disease severity-matched rhAPC-naive controls were identified from an existing database. An additional six women were recruited as biomarker controls. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary safety outcome: incidence of peripartum bleeding; primary efficacy outcome: duration of pregnancy after enrolment. RESULTS: Twelve (31.6%) of 38 eligible women consented; 3 did not receive the infusion due to staffing. Therefore, 9 women received rhAPC (24 mug/kg/hr for </=96 h antenatally). No safety issues were identified. There was a marginal prolongation in eligibility-to-delivery intervals for women receiving rhAPC (Mantel-Cox p = 0.052; Gehan-Breslow-Wilcoxon p = 0.049). Compared with both the pre-infusion phase in the rhAPC-treated women themselves and with fullPIERS rhAPC-naive women, rhAPC was associated with increased urine output during the infusion (6/9 vs 1/9 had urine output >100 mL/h during the infusion, Fisher's exact p = 0.003). CONCLUSIONS: These data support further investigation of APC in women with severe early-onset preeclampsia; recombinant and purified human APC is available. In addition, these data will inform the design and implementation of randomized controlled trials aiming to modify and/or moderate the proinflammatory and proacoagulant state of preeclampsia.
30176473	Benzene	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Personal exposure to traffic-related air pollutants and relationships with respiratory symptoms and oxidative stress: A pilot cross-sectional study among urban green space workers.	Exposure to ambient air pollution has been associated with various adverse health effects including respiratory, cardiovascular and neurological diseases. Exposure data for some specific pollutants and settings are however still insufficient and mechanisms underlying negative health outcomes are not fully elucidated. This pilot study aimed to assess individual exposure to three traffic-related air pollutants, black carbon (BC), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and benzene, and the relationship with respiratory and oxidative stress outcomes in a cross-sectional sample of 48 green space workers in Brussels, Belgium. Participants were followed during four consecutive working days in 2016-2017 during which their individual exposure to BC, PAHs, benzene and more generally air pollution was measured using aethalometers, urinary biomarkers (1-hydroxypyrene, 1-naphthol, 2-naphthol, S-phenylmercapturic acid) and questionnaires. Data on respiratory health and oxidative stress were collected using questionnaires and respiratory/urinary biomarkers (exhaled nitric oxide [NO], 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine [8-OHdG]). Associations between exposure and health outcomes were investigated using comparison tests and linear regression models, after stratification by present-day smoking status. Spatial variation in BC exposure was high, with concentrations varying between 0.26 and 5.69 mug/m(3). The highest levels were recorded during transport and, to a lesser extent, in green spaces located in the vicinity of roads with high traffic intensity. Concentrations of PAHs and benzene biomarkers did not systematically exceed the limits of detection. Among smokers, respiratory inflammation increased linearly with exposure to BC measured over the four days of follow-up (beta = 8.73, 95% CI: 4.04, 13.41). Among non-smokers, oxidative stress increased linearly with BC measured on the fourth day (beta = 2.88, 95% CI: 1.52, 4.24). Despite some limitations, this work supports the hypothesis that BC induces respiratory inflammation and oxidative stress. It also highlights the value of this compound as well as exhaled NO and urinary 8-OHdG biomarkers to detect early/mild effects of air pollution.
30176473	Soot	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Personal exposure to traffic-related air pollutants and relationships with respiratory symptoms and oxidative stress: A pilot cross-sectional study among urban green space workers.	Exposure to ambient air pollution has been associated with various adverse health effects including respiratory, cardiovascular and neurological diseases. Exposure data for some specific pollutants and settings are however still insufficient and mechanisms underlying negative health outcomes are not fully elucidated. This pilot study aimed to assess individual exposure to three traffic-related air pollutants, black carbon (BC), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and benzene, and the relationship with respiratory and oxidative stress outcomes in a cross-sectional sample of 48 green space workers in Brussels, Belgium. Participants were followed during four consecutive working days in 2016-2017 during which their individual exposure to BC, PAHs, benzene and more generally air pollution was measured using aethalometers, urinary biomarkers (1-hydroxypyrene, 1-naphthol, 2-naphthol, S-phenylmercapturic acid) and questionnaires. Data on respiratory health and oxidative stress were collected using questionnaires and respiratory/urinary biomarkers (exhaled nitric oxide [NO], 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine [8-OHdG]). Associations between exposure and health outcomes were investigated using comparison tests and linear regression models, after stratification by present-day smoking status. Spatial variation in BC exposure was high, with concentrations varying between 0.26 and 5.69 mug/m(3). The highest levels were recorded during transport and, to a lesser extent, in green spaces located in the vicinity of roads with high traffic intensity. Concentrations of PAHs and benzene biomarkers did not systematically exceed the limits of detection. Among smokers, respiratory inflammation increased linearly with exposure to BC measured over the four days of follow-up (beta = 8.73, 95% CI: 4.04, 13.41). Among non-smokers, oxidative stress increased linearly with BC measured on the fourth day (beta = 2.88, 95% CI: 1.52, 4.24). Despite some limitations, this work supports the hypothesis that BC induces respiratory inflammation and oxidative stress. It also highlights the value of this compound as well as exhaled NO and urinary 8-OHdG biomarkers to detect early/mild effects of air pollution.
30161312	Tamsulosin	Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological	0	0	0	0		[Therapeutic effects of alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists on benign prostatic hyperplasia: A network meta-analysis].	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the therapeutic effects of commonly used selective alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists (alpha-ARA) on benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). METHODS: PubMed, Embase and CNKI databases were searched for the literature about selective alpha-ARAs for the treatment of BPH and the information was extracted on the common adverse reactions in the course of treatment. Multivariate meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the therapeutic effects of different alpha-ARAs. RESULTS: The total rates of adverse effects of silodosin and tamsulosin were the highest, 51.9% and 34.0% respectively, with the highest incidences of headache (38.3%), weakness (23.6%) and dizziness (17.5%). Besides, tamsulosin ranked the first in inducing sexual dysfunction of the male patients with BPH (70.4%). CONCLUSIONS: Doxazosin is preferable as the first-choice treatment of BPH for its therapeutic effect and improvement of the patient's quality of life. Silodosin and tamsulosin, however, can be selectively used according to the patient's specific tolerance to different adverse effects.
30158028	Ibuprofen	Atrophy	0	1	0	0		Protective Effect of Commercial Green Tea on Ibuprofen-Induced Glomerular Atrophy in Kidney of Adult Rat.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of commercial green tea on ibuprofen-induced glomerular atrophy in kidney of adult rat by using transvertical glomerular diameter as the determining parameter. STUDY DESIGN: Laboratory-based experimental study. PLACE AND DURATION OF STUDY: Department of Anatomy, Army Medical College Rawalpindi in collaboration with National Institute of Health (NIH) Islamabad from December 2016 to January 2017. METHODOLOGY: Thirty Sprague-dawley rats, males and females, were selected and divided into three groups. Each group comprised of 10 animals. Group A was used as control. Group B was given ibuprofen 120 mg/kg bodyweight/day. Group C received extract of Lipton green tea 1 ml/100 mg bodyweight/day in addition to ibuprofen 120 mg/kg. The dose was administered once daily for a period of 9 weeks. Animals were sacrificed 24 hours after administration of last dose. Kidney tissue was processed and stained with H&E. Routine histological study was performed. Change in transvertical glomerular diameter was taken as the defining parameter for determining glomerular atrophy. SPSS version 22 was the tool used for statistical analysis. P-value <0.05 was considered significant. RESULTS: Transvertical glomerular diameter (TVGD) was significantly decreased in both experimental groups B (76.15 +1.85 microm) and C (89.59 +1.87 microm) in comparison with control group A (94.27 +1.82 microm). However, the difference in TVGD between both experimental groups was also significant, asserting the ameliorative effect of green tea against glomerular damage. CONCLUSION: Ibuprofen caused glomerular atrophy but administration of green tea along with ibuprofen protected against significant reduction in glomerular diameter, thus preventing atrophy.
30142719	Sunitinib	Hand Dermatoses	1	1	0	0	1.0	Fixed drug eruption related to sunitinib: a case report.	Sunitinib is an oral multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It has been approved for the treatment of gastro-intestinal stromal tumor and advanced renal cell carcinoma. Fixed drug eruption related to sunitinib is a rare cutaneous adverse drug reaction.
30077976	Mexiletine	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sensory ganglionopathy associated with drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome caused by mexiletine.	Although various causes are reported for sensory ganglionopathy, drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome (DIHS) has not been considered a possibility. We describe a 70-year-old woman, previously administered mexiletine hydrochloride for 4 weeks, who presented with systemic oedematous erythema and subacute progressive gait disturbance. Evaluation revealed lymphadenopathy with atypical lymphocytosis and eosinophilia, and human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) reactivation. Neurological examination indicated the almost complete loss of joint positional sense in her extremities; her tendon reflex was lost and there was marked pseudoathetosis and Romberg's sign. Skin biopsy revealed spongiosis with lymphocyte infiltration. Based on these findings, we diagnosed acute sensory ganglionopathy secondary to DIHS. Although her DIHS-induced symptoms subsided after methylprednisolone treatment, partial remission of sensory ganglionopathy occurred, even after subsequent intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. This case suggests the possibility that reactivation of HHV-6 may be involved in the pathomechanism of sensory ganglionopathy.
30069864	Ranibizumab	Thrombosis	0	0	0	0		Real-World Safety of Intravitreal Bevacizumab and Ranibizumab Treatments for Retinal Diseases in Thailand: A Prospective Observational Study.	BACKGROUND: There is very limited evidence examining serious systemic adverse events (SSAEs) and post-injection endophthalmitis of intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) and intravitreal ranibizumab (IVR) treatments in Thailand and low- and middle-income countries. Moreover, findings from the existing trials might have limited generalizability to certain populations and rare SSAEs. OBJECTIVES: This prospective observational study aimed to assess and compare the safety profiles of IVB and IVR in patients with retinal diseases in Thailand. METHODS: Between 2013 and 2015, 6354 patients eligible for IVB or IVR were recruited from eight hospitals. Main outcomes measures were prevalence and risk of SSAEs, mortality, and endophthalmitis during the 6-month follow-up period. RESULTS: In the IVB and IVR groups, 94 and 6% of patients participated, respectively. The rates of outcomes in the IVB group were slightly greater than in the IVR group. All-cause mortality rates in the IVB and IVR groups were 1.10 and 0.53%, respectively. Prevalence rates of endophthalmitis and non-fatal strokes in the IVB group were 0.04% of 16,421 injections and 0.27% of 5975 patients, respectively, whereas none of these events were identified in the IVR group. There were no differences between the two groups in the risks of mortality, arteriothrombotic events (ATE), and non-fatal heart failure (HF). Adjustment for potential confounding factors and selection bias using multivariable models for time-to-event outcomes and propensity scores did not alter the results. CONCLUSIONS: The rates of SAEs in both groups were low. The IVB and IVR treatments were not associated with significant risks of mortality, ATE, and non-fatal HF. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Thai Clinical Trial Registry identifier TCTR20141002001.
30056483	Levetiracetam	Pregnancy Complications	0	0	0	0		Fetal safety of levetiracetam use during pregnancy.	The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of levetiracetam treatment during pregnancy on fetus.. The pregnant women with epilepsy (PWWE) who were exposed to levetiracetam treatment during pregnancy in the form of monotherapy or polytherapy were retrospectively evaluated. They were compared with the PWWE who did not use the antiepileptic drug (AED) during pregnancy. A total of 102 pregnancies were examined. While 35 patients never used AED during pregnancy, 30 patients received only levetiracetam therapy, and 37 patients received levetiracetam with at least one combined AED. While no major congenital malformation (MCM) was determined in the group of patients who never used AED and who received levetiracetam monotherapy, 2 MCMs were determined in the group receiving multiple AED therapy with levetiracetam. This study showed that the use of levetiracetam as monotherapy during pregnancy was at the same risk level as the group who never used AED and that the risk increased when it was used as a part of polytherapy. In conclusion, these findings support the current understanding that LEV may be a feasible option for PWWE.
30043130	Imatinib Mesylate	Pain	0	0	0	0		Pattern of Use and Long-Term Safety of Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors: A Decade of Real-World Management of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: First-line treatment of chronic phase (CP) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is based on the first-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) imatinib or the second-generation TKIs dasatinib or nilotinib. Thanks to the efficacy of TKIs, CML has switched from a fatal to a 'chronic' pathology, and data from clinical trials have become insufficient to drive physicians' prescription choices and address long-term treatment outcomes. On the brink of commercialization of generic imatinib, this study aims to evaluate the therapeutic pattern of CP-CML and the occurrence of adverse events (AEs) over a decade of local real clinical practice. METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was performed on CP-CML patients followed up in the Local Health Unit of Treviso (Veneto Region, Italy) during the period 2005-2015. Data were captured from both administrative databases and physicians' patient diaries. RESULTS: Of 81 CP-CML patients, 73 were treated with first-line imatinib; among the second-generation TKIs, only nilotinib was used (n = 8). Overall, 38% of imatinib-treated subjects needed to switch, mainly due to intolerance, whereas no switches occurred in the nilotinib cohort. Osteoarticular pain was the most common AE and was significantly more frequent in the imatinib cohort (68.49 vs. 25.00%, p = 0.022). Other common AEs were dermatologic manifestations, asthenia, and diarrhea. CONCLUSION: Although based on a small population, this study represents an unbiased reference on the long-term management of CML in an Italian clinical setting. Our results indicate a better profile of first-line nilotinib, both in terms of persistency and tolerability. AEs remain a major concern, highlighting the importance of close monitoring.
30035576	Nicotine	Chronic Pain	1	1	0	0	0.0	Effects of nicotine deprivation on current pain intensity among daily cigarette smokers.	Animal research has consistently demonstrated increased pain in the context of nicotine deprivation, and there is cross-sectional evidence that tobacco smokers may experience greater pain following periods of smoking abstinence. This study aimed to examine current pain intensity as a function of nicotine deprivation among 137 daily tobacco smokers who did not endorse chronic pain and were recruited to participate in a primary study of the effects of smoking abstinence on experimental pain reactivity. Participants were randomized to either deprivation (12-24 hr abstinence) or continued ad lib smoking conditions. Compliance with the manipulation was biochemically verified via expired carbon monoxide (CO). Current pain intensity was assessed at baseline (Session 1) and following the deprivation manipulation (Session 2) using a single item that asked participants to indicate their current level of pain on a scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine). At baseline, the majority of participants (51.1%) reported no pain (M = 1.75). As hypothesized, participants randomized to nicotine deprivation (vs. continued smoking) reported greater current pain intensity following the manipulation. Among smokers who reported no pain at baseline, those who abstained from smoking were nearly 3.5 times more likely to endorse pain at Session 2. These results suggest that daily tobacco smokers may experience greater pain during the first 12-24 hr of smoking abstinence. Future research should examine the role of pain in nicotine withdrawal, and whether tailored interventions may be needed to account for nicotine deprivation-induced amplification of pain. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).
30024442	Fluoxetine	Compulsive Behavior	1	1	1	1	1.0	Fluoxetine-Induced Skin Picking and Compulsive Behaviors in a Preschool Girl.	Skin-picking disorder is regarded as a type of obsessive-compulsive and related disorders according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are reported to be effective in the treatment of skin-picking disorder. However, these agents can cause opposite effects in some cases. There is a report on SSRI-induced skin-picking disorder in adults. However, to our knowledge, there are no data regarding SSRI-induced skin picking in children. We present the case of a preschool girl with separation anxiety disorder who displayed skin-picking and compulsive-asking behaviors after fluoxetine therapy.
29993162	Donepezil	Cognition Disorders	1	0	0	1		Disease state changes and safety of long-term donepezil hydrochloride administration in patients with Alzheimer's disease: Japan-Great Outcome of Long-term trial with Donepezil (J-GOLD).	BACKGROUND: A long-term, large-scale study of donepezil hydrochloride in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) was conducted. Previously, two interim reports were published during this study. We have now completed the study and herein present our analysis of the final results. METHODS: The subjects of this study included AD patients who received the drug for the first time (newly treated patients), as well as AD patients who were already receiving the drug at the start of the study (continuously treated patients). The observation period was 48 months. Changes in cognitive function and severity of dementia associated with the drug administration and its safety were assessed. RESULTS: Cognitive function decreased significantly after 24 months in newly treated patients and after 6 months in continuously treated patients, compared with baseline. The percentages of patients whose dementia severity improved or remained the same compared with baseline were 59.27% at 48 months in the newly treated patients and 57.09% at 48 months in the continuously treated patients. There were no major safety problems with the drug. CONCLUSIONS: We conducted a large-scale study of AD patients in Japan. Here, we present our analysis of the final results and describe current clinical practice with the drug, changes in cognitive function and dementia severity associated with long-term administration of the drug, and the drug's safety.
29992215	Stavudine	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	0	1	0	0		Microphysiological flux balance platform unravels the dynamics of drug induced steatosis.	Drug development is currently hampered by the inability of animal experiments to accurately predict human response. While emerging organ on chip technology offers to reduce risk using microfluidic models of human tissues, the technology still mostly relies on end-point assays and biomarker measurements to assess tissue damage resulting in limited mechanistic information and difficulties to detect adverse effects occurring below the threshold of cellular damage. Here we present a sensor-integrated liver on chip array in which oxygen is monitored using two-frequency phase modulation of tissue-embedded microprobes, while glucose, lactate and temperature are measured in real time using microfluidic electrochemical sensors. Our microphysiological platform permits the calculation of dynamic changes in metabolic fluxes around central carbon metabolism, producing a unique metabolic fingerprint of the liver's response to stimuli. Using our platform, we studied the dynamics of human liver response to the epilepsy drug Valproate (Depakine) and the antiretroviral medication Stavudine (Zerit). Using E6/E7LOW hepatocytes, we show TC50 of 2.5 and 0.8 mM, respectively, coupled with a significant induction of steatosis in 2D and 3D cultures. Time to onset analysis showed slow progressive damage starting only 15-20 hours post-exposure. However, flux analysis showed a rapid disruption of metabolic homeostasis occurring below the threshold of cellular damage. While Valproate exposure led to a sustained 15% increase in lipogenesis followed by mitochondrial stress, Stavudine exposure showed only a transient increase in lipogenesis suggesting disruption of beta-oxidation. Our data demonstrates the importance of tracking metabolic stress as a predictor of clinical outcome.
29992215	Valproic Acid	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	0	1	0	0		Microphysiological flux balance platform unravels the dynamics of drug induced steatosis.	Drug development is currently hampered by the inability of animal experiments to accurately predict human response. While emerging organ on chip technology offers to reduce risk using microfluidic models of human tissues, the technology still mostly relies on end-point assays and biomarker measurements to assess tissue damage resulting in limited mechanistic information and difficulties to detect adverse effects occurring below the threshold of cellular damage. Here we present a sensor-integrated liver on chip array in which oxygen is monitored using two-frequency phase modulation of tissue-embedded microprobes, while glucose, lactate and temperature are measured in real time using microfluidic electrochemical sensors. Our microphysiological platform permits the calculation of dynamic changes in metabolic fluxes around central carbon metabolism, producing a unique metabolic fingerprint of the liver's response to stimuli. Using our platform, we studied the dynamics of human liver response to the epilepsy drug Valproate (Depakine) and the antiretroviral medication Stavudine (Zerit). Using E6/E7LOW hepatocytes, we show TC50 of 2.5 and 0.8 mM, respectively, coupled with a significant induction of steatosis in 2D and 3D cultures. Time to onset analysis showed slow progressive damage starting only 15-20 hours post-exposure. However, flux analysis showed a rapid disruption of metabolic homeostasis occurring below the threshold of cellular damage. While Valproate exposure led to a sustained 15% increase in lipogenesis followed by mitochondrial stress, Stavudine exposure showed only a transient increase in lipogenesis suggesting disruption of beta-oxidation. Our data demonstrates the importance of tracking metabolic stress as a predictor of clinical outcome.
29968197	Ustekinumab	Hepatitis B	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of Hepatitis B Reactivation in Patients with Psoriasis on Ustekinumab.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Ustekinumab is used to treat moderate-to-severe psoriasis by blocking the interleukin-12/23 pathway, which is also essential against intracellular pathogens. Because there is a high prevalence of hepatitis B viral infection in Taiwan, the expected risk of reactivation is higher among ustekinumab-treated patients. We performed this study to investigate the risk of hepatitis reactivation. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Patients with psoriasis treated with ustekinumab from October 2011 to June 2016 were enrolled in a prospective cohort study. All patients were tested for hepatitis B serology and serum viral DNA at baseline. For those positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) or hepatitis B core antibodies (anti-HBc) testing for HBV DNA was conducted at least annually. An increase of HBV DNA > 2 log scale or emergence of HBV DNA were defined as reactivation. The primary outcome of this study was HBV reactivation. RESULTS: Ninety-three psoriasis patients receiving ustekinumab were included. The average duration of treatment and follow-up was 24 +/- 12 months. There were 39 patients classified as naive to HBV or vaccinated, and none of these patients had HBV reactivation. Among the remaining 54 patients classified as inactive HBV carriers, resolved HBV infection, or isolated anti-HBc positivity, only 3 patients experienced virologic reactivation, and none had liver failure. CONCLUSION: The study outcomes indicate that ustekinumab could be safe for psoriasis patients since none developed persistent hepatitis or acute liver failure during therapy. However, the re-appearance of plasma HBV DNA requires appropriate monitoring of HBV viral load during ustekinumab treatment.
29958705	Nivolumab	Uveitis	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Bilateral uveitis associated with nivolumab therapy].	Immune-related adverse events (IRAEs) are rare but serious adverse events that may be associated with inhibitors of few immune control points. The purpose here is to report the case of an inflammatory ocular disease, potentially linked to the immunity and use of nivolumab, a new immunological agent used for the treatment of a solid tumor. In spite of the involvement of this treatment in the onset of inflammation, we must always seek another cause. It is possible to continue this treatment by considering the benefit/risk balance for each patient. Close collaboration between oncologists and ophthalmologists is necessary in the diagnosis and rapid management of these IRAE ocular related to these new emerging therapies.
29948822	Tenecteplase	Intracranial Hemorrhages	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and Safety of Intravenous Tenecteplase Bolus in Acute Ischemic Stroke: Results of Two Open-Label, Multicenter Trials.	BACKGROUND: Tenecteplase (TNK-tPA) is a promising third-generation plasminogen activator, because of its greater fibrin specificity and longer half-life than alteplase. There is a paucity of studies on intravenous thrombolysis using TNK-tPA in developing countries. The present study has been undertaken to compare the efficacy and safety of TNK-tPA with alteplase. METHODS: Two studies were conducted. Study I was an open-label, randomized study in which two doses of TNK-tPA (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg) were compared. Study II was an open-label study in which TNK-tPA 0.2 mg/kg bolus was compared with historical controls. The primary endpoint for study I and study II was an improvement of >/= 8 points or a score of 0 on the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) [major neurological improvement (MNI)] at 24 h. Secondary endpoints for both studies were neurological improvement as assessed using the NIHSS score, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score and the Barthel Index (BI) on days 7, 30 and 90. Minimal disability was defined as an mRS score of 0 or 1 and good functional recovery as a BI score of 50-90. Safety was assessed by the proportion of patients having symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH) within 36 h and asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage at 48 h after treatment. RESULTS: In study I, 20 patients received 0.1 mg/kg and 30 received 0.2 mg/kg TNK-tPA. There was no significant difference in MNI at 24 h between 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg TNK-tPA doses. The patients given 0.2 mg/kg TNK-tPA had a significantly better 3-month outcome (minimal disability, p = 0.007). There was no sICH in study I. In study II, 62 patients (one lost to follow-up) received 0.2 mg/kg TNK-tPA. MNI was noted in ten patients (16.4%), 3-month minimal disability was noted in 37 patients (60.7%), and good functional recovery was seen in 33 patients (54.1%). sICH occurred in one patient, and four patients died. Pooled data of patients in study I and study II receiving 0.2 mg/kg TNK-tPA were compared with data from the historical National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) trial. For comparison, the primary endpoint of the NINDS trial (improvement on NIHSS of >/= 4 points or a score of 0 at 24 h) was taken. The primary endpoint though was not significantly different (58.2% vs. 47%, p = 0.08), but with TNK-tPA, greater neurological improvement, minimal disability (70.3 vs. 39%, p < 0.001) and good functional recovery (36.3 vs. 16%, p < 0.001) was noted at 3 months. There was a lower incidence of sICH (1.1 vs. 6.4%, p = 0.05) and lower 3-month mortality (5.5 vs. 17%, p = 0.01) noted with TNK-tPA compared with alteplase. CONCLUSIONS: Intravenous TNK-tPA 0.2 mg/kg administered within 3 hours of symptom onset seems to be well tolerated and effective option in patients with acute ischemic stroke. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials Registry-India, www.ctri.nic.in ; unique identifiers: CTRI/2009/091/000251 and CTRI/2015/02/005556.
29926795	Citalopram	Eosinophilia	1	0	0	0		Escitalopram-induced delayed drug rash with deranged liver function: a possible case of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic reaction.	
29914535	Tranexamic Acid	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Tranexamic acid is associated with selective increase in inflammatory markers following total knee arthroplasty (TKA): a pilot study.	BACKGROUND: Tranexamic acid (TXA) is commonly used in orthopedic surgery to reduce excessive bleeding and transfusion requirements. Our aim was to examine if TXA was required in all osteoarthritis patients undergoing TKA surgery, and its possible effects on systemic inflammation and coagulation properties. METHODS: Twenty-three patients (Oxford Score 22-29) were recruited consecutively; 12 patients received TXA before (IV, 1.2 g/90 kg) and immediately after surgery (intra-articular, 1.4 g/90 kg). Inflammatory mediators and ROTEM parameters were measured in blood at baseline, after the first bone-cut, immediately after surgery, and postoperative days 1 and 2. RESULTS: After the bone cut and surgery, TXA significantly increased MCP-1, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 levels compared to non-TXA patients, which was further amplified postoperatively. During surgery, TXA significantly prolonged EXTEM clot times, indicating a thrombin-slowing effect, despite little or no change in clot amplitude or fibrinogen. TXA was associated with three- to fivefold increases in FIBTEM maximum lysis (ML), a finding counter to TXA's antifibrinolytic effect. Maximum lysis for extrinsic and intrinsic pathways was < 8%, indicating little or no hyperfibrinolysis. No significant differences were found in postoperative hemoglobin between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS: TXA was associated with increased systemic inflammation during surgery compared to non-TXA patients, with further amplification on postoperative days 1 and 2. On the basis of little or no change in viscoelastic clot strength, fibrinogen or clot lysis, there appeared to be no clinical justification for TXA in our group of patients. Larger prospective, randomized trials are required to investigate a possible proinflammatory effect in TKA patients.
29893371	Venlafaxine Hydrochloride	Glaucoma, Angle-Closure	1	0	0	0		Acute Angle-Closure Glaucoma Caused by Venlafaxine.	
29780148	Temozolomide	Cystitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cytomegalovirus Hemorrhagic Cystitis in a Malignant Glioma Patient Treated with Temozolomide.	Temozolomide, a key drug in the treatment of malignant glioma, can cause profound lymphopenia and various opportunistic infectious diseases. A 79-year-old woman with anaplastic oligodendroglioma developed a fever and gross hematuria after 8 weeks of standard radiotherapy with concomitant temozolomide treatment. A cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigen test for pp65 antigenemia was positive (137 cells per 75,800 leukocytes), and the findings from a urine cytology test were consistent with CMV-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. She was treated with ganciclovir, and her condition improved. CMV monitoring is needed when patients develop symptoms related to opportunistic infections during temozolomide treatment for malignant glioma.
29780148	Temozolomide	Cytomegalovirus Infections	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cytomegalovirus Hemorrhagic Cystitis in a Malignant Glioma Patient Treated with Temozolomide.	Temozolomide, a key drug in the treatment of malignant glioma, can cause profound lymphopenia and various opportunistic infectious diseases. A 79-year-old woman with anaplastic oligodendroglioma developed a fever and gross hematuria after 8 weeks of standard radiotherapy with concomitant temozolomide treatment. A cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigen test for pp65 antigenemia was positive (137 cells per 75,800 leukocytes), and the findings from a urine cytology test were consistent with CMV-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. She was treated with ganciclovir, and her condition improved. CMV monitoring is needed when patients develop symptoms related to opportunistic infections during temozolomide treatment for malignant glioma.
29780148	Temozolomide	Opportunistic Infections	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cytomegalovirus Hemorrhagic Cystitis in a Malignant Glioma Patient Treated with Temozolomide.	Temozolomide, a key drug in the treatment of malignant glioma, can cause profound lymphopenia and various opportunistic infectious diseases. A 79-year-old woman with anaplastic oligodendroglioma developed a fever and gross hematuria after 8 weeks of standard radiotherapy with concomitant temozolomide treatment. A cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigen test for pp65 antigenemia was positive (137 cells per 75,800 leukocytes), and the findings from a urine cytology test were consistent with CMV-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. She was treated with ganciclovir, and her condition improved. CMV monitoring is needed when patients develop symptoms related to opportunistic infections during temozolomide treatment for malignant glioma.
29780139	Methotrexate	Rare Diseases	1	0	1	1	1.0	Methotrexate-associated Intravascular Large B-cell Lymphoma in a Patient with Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Very Rare Case.	We herein report a rare case of methotrexate (MTX)-associated intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVLBCL) in a man with rheumatoid arthritis. Two episodes of a fever of unknown origin accompanied by elevated levels of serum lactate dehydrogenase and the soluble interleukin-2 receptor occurred within a year, so the patient was suspected of having an MTX-associated lymphoproliferative disorder. His clinical symptoms resolved after the cessation of MTX. However, after treatment with iguratimod, another disease-modified anti-rheumatic drug, markedly similar symptoms recurred, and random skin biopsies resulted in a diagnosis of IVLBCL. The patient received a rituximab-containing chemotherapy and achieved complete remission.
29780110	Pemetrexed	Thrombosis	1	0	0	0		Bevacizumab-induced Aortic Arterial Thrombosis.	A 65-year-old man was diagnosed with advanced non-small, non-squamous lung cancer. He was treated with chemotherapy containing bevacizumab as well as cisplatin and pemetrexed. After 2 courses of treatment, computed tomography revealed that his abdominal aortic artery was almost occluded by a thrombus; however, he had no ischemic symptoms. Heparin infusion and warfarin reduced the size of the arterial thrombus and the patient was subsequently treated with chemotherapy without bevacizumab. No thrombotic events occurred during the subsequent treatment. We later noticed a small organized abdominal arterial clot and calcification on a computed tomography scan taken before bevacizumab treatment. Atherosclerotic changes should be evaluated before the administration of bevacizumab.
29685923	Caffeine	Overweight	1	1	0	0	0.0	Maternal caffeine intake during pregnancy and childhood growth and overweight: results from a large Norwegian prospective observational cohort study.	OBJECTIVES: To study the association between maternal caffeine intake during pregnancy and the child's weight gain and overweight risk up to 8 years. DESIGN: Prospective nationwide pregnancy cohort. SETTING: The Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study. PARTICIPANTS: A total of 50 943 mothers recruited from 2002 to 2008 and their children, after singleton pregnancies, with information about average caffeine intake assessed at mid-pregnancy. OUTCOME MEASURE: Child's body size information at 11 age points from 6 weeks to 8 years. We defined excess growth in infancy as a WHO weight gain z-score of >0.67 from birth to age 1 year, and overweight according to the International Obesity Task Force. We used a growth model to assess individual growth trajectories. RESULTS: Compared with pregnant women with low caffeine intake (<50 mg/day, 46%), women with average (50-199 mg/day, 44%), high (>/=200-299 mg/day, 7%) and very high (>/=300 mg/day, 3%) caffeine intakes had an increased risk of their child experiencing excess growth in infancy, after adjustment for confounders (OR=1.15, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.22, OR=1.30, 95% CI 1.16 to 1.45, OR=1.66, 95% CI 1.42 to 1.93, respectively). In utero exposure to any caffeine was associated with higher risk of overweight at age 3 years and 5 years, while the association persisted at 8 years, only for very high exposures. Any caffeine intake was associated with increased body mass index from infancy to childhood. Children prenatally exposed to caffeine intake >200 mg/day had consistently higher weight. Very high caffeine exposures were associated with higher weight gain velocity from infancy to age 8 years. CONCLUSION: Any caffeine consumption during pregnancy is associated with a higher risk of excess infant growth and of childhood overweight, mainly at preschool ages. Maternal caffeine intake may modify the overall weight growth trajectory of the child from birth to 8 years. This study adds supporting evidence for the current advice to reduce caffeine intake during pregnancy.
29628319	Lidocaine	Facial Nerve Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Facial nerve palsy and laryngospasm as a complication of local anaesthesia during adenotonsillectomy.	Tonsil surgeries are the most frequently performed surgical procedures in ENT departments. We would like to present the case of a 5-year-old patient who suffered from unilateral peripheral facial nerve palsy and laryngeal spasm following adenotonsillectomy. Paresis was observed immediately after the transfer of the patient to the postoperative room. The activity of facial muscles was restored within 2 hours from the beginning of the surgery. We assume that this was the direct effect of an anaesthetic on the extracranial processes of the facial nerve.
29581622	Bevacizumab	Tracheoesophageal Fistula	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bevacizumab-induced tracheoesophageal fistula in a patient suffering from lung cancer with bulky subcarinal lymph node: a case report.	A 66-year-old male with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who was previously treated with carboplatin, pemetrexed, and bevacizumab consequently suffered from severe coughing during deglutition. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed a tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) between the left main bronchus and esophagus through a subcarinal metastatic lymph node. Given the extreme swelling of the lymph node due to metastatic cancer, it was determined that the walls of the bronchus and esophagus had been injured simultaneously. Delayed and dysfunctional wound healing due to bevacizumab resulted in necrosis of the contact region leading to fistula formation. This case suggests that using bevacizumab for NSCLC in patients with bulky subcarinal lymphadenopathy may increase the risk for TEF.
29525688	Clomiphene	Diabetes, Gestational	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29525688	Clomiphene	Hypertension, Pregnancy-Induced	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29525688	Clomiphene	Premature Birth	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29525688	Cyproterone Acetate	Pregnancy Complications	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29525688	Ethinyl Estradiol	Diabetes, Gestational	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29525688	Ethinyl Estradiol	Hypertension, Pregnancy-Induced	0	0	0	0		Comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes of Chinese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome with and without antiandrogenic pretreatment.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence of adverse pregnancy outcomes in healthy Chinese women and to investigate whether these outcomes could be decreased in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) by ethinylestradiol/cyproterone acetate (EE/CPA) pretreatment. DESIGN: Retrospective study. SETTING: Medical university. PATIENT(S): Six thousand healthy women (group A) were selected from 24,566 pregnant women by randomized sampling. Four hundred forty-eight patients with PCOS without EE/CPA pretreatment were assigned to group B, and 222 patients with PCOS with 3 months of pretreatment to group C. All patients with PCOS had biochemical and/or clinical hyperandrogenism and conceived within 3 monthly ovulation inductions using clomiphene. INTERVENTION(S): None. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), premature delivery (PD), and neonatal birth weight. RESULT(S): The prevalence of GDM, PIH, and PD was higher in group B than in groups A and C (A vs. B vs. C: GDM, 21.2% vs. 35.0% vs. 22.5%; PIH, 6.5% vs. 14.1% vs. 7.7%; PD, 5.4% vs. 8.6% vs. 6.8%). No significant difference was found in neonatal birth weight. After adjusting for age, pregestational body mass index, education level, and employment status, PCOS without pretreatment increased the risk of GDM (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.666; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.340-2.072), PIH (aOR = 1.487; 95% CI, 1.093-2.023), and PD (aOR = 1.522; 95% CI 1.051-2.205), compared with healthy women. No increased risk was found in group C. CONCLUSION(S): In our highly selected study population, patients with PCOS are more likely to develop GDM, PIH, and PD. Pretreatment with EE/CPA was associated with a lower risk of GDM, PIH, and PD.
29522636	Olanzapine	Neutropenia	1	0	0	0		[Treatment-resistant schizophrenia: Neutropenia with olanzapine and clozapine, and stabilization with two depot antipsychotics].	This case report describes a case of a woman with treatment-resistant schizophrenia, who experienced neutropenia induced by olanzapine and clozapine, and reached symptomatic stabilization with a combination of two depot antipsychotics. This report presents a brief review about the incidence of haematologic events by antipsychotics and the evidence of antipsychotic combination in the treatment.
29454051	Artemether, Lumefantrine Drug Combination	Anemia, Hemolytic	0	1	0	0		Retrospective observational study of the use of artemether-lumefantrine in the treatment of malaria in Japan.	BACKGROUND: The Research Group on Chemotherapy of Tropical Diseases, Japan, introduced artemether-lumefantrine (AL) in late 2002, mainly for treating uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Because AL was on the market in Japan in March 2017, the effectiveness and safety of AL were analyzed to help medical personnel use AL optimally. METHODS: Case report forms submitted by the attending physicians were analyzed. When necessary, direct contact with the attending physicians was made to obtain detailed information. RESULTS: Effectiveness analysis was performed for 62 cases and safety analysis was performed for 66 cases. In P. falciparum malaria, the overall cure rate was 91.1% (51/56), of which the cure rates for Japanese and non-Japanese patients were 82.1% (23/28) and 100% (28/28), respectively. The successfully treated cases included severe P. falciparum malaria, with parasite densities exceeding 500,000/muL. Adverse events were reported in 14 patients, including delayed hemolytic anemia which occurred in the top four highest parasitemic cases. CONCLUSIONS: AL treatment failure in P. falciparum malaria may not be rare among non-immune individuals, including Japanese. The possibility of delayed hemolytic anemia, which occurs preferentially in high parasitemic cases, should be considered following AL treatment.
29437902	Resveratrol	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	0	0	0		Maternal resveratrol consumption and its programming effects on metabolic health in offspring mechanisms and potential implications.	A growing body of evidence has clearly demonstrated that maternal nutrition can strongly determine the susceptibility to the development of metabolic diseases in offspring. With the increasing prevalence of maternal overweight, obesity, and gestational diabetes mellitus, it yields enormous burden for individual and public health. Interventions during pregnancy have been proven to be challenging, with limited efficacy and low compliance. Resveratrol, as a natural polyphenolic compound, has a wide-range of beneficial properties, including potent antiobesogenic, antiatherosclerotic, and antidiabetic effects. However, the role of maternal resveratrol intake on metabolic health in offspring has not been extensively investigated. Therefore, the aim of this study was to review the effects of maternal resveratrol supplementation on metabolic health in offspring and its potential mechanisms.
29425799	Vancomycin	Vision Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Vancomycin-Associated Hemorrhagic Occlusive Retinal Vasculitis: A Clinical-Pathophysiological Analysis.	PURPOSE: To derive novel insights into the pathophysiology of vancomycin-related hemorrhagic occlusive retinal vasculopathy (HORV) through a careful clinicopathologic correlation. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and pathologic course of 2 consecutive patients who developed HORV. The clinical history, multimodal imaging, ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM), and intraoperative and histologic findings are reported. RESULTS: Both patients presented with decreased vision and eye pain within 1 week following otherwise uncomplicated cataract extraction and were diagnosed with HORV after endophthalmitis was ruled out. Both patients presented with significant ocular discomfort that progressively worsened, and both experienced a dismal visual outcome despite early aggressive medical and surgical therapy. One patient requested enucleation for a blind and painful eye. Upon histologic examination of this eye, the iris and ciliary body appeared to be infarcted with separation of the iris and ciliary epithelia from their adjacent stromal components. These findings were corroborated by UBM of the second patient. Histologic examination of the posterior segment demonstrated severe hemorrhagic necrosis of the neurosensory retina and an occlusive nonarteritic vasculopathy of the retina and choroid. The choroid was thickened by prominent nongranulomatous chronic inflammation accompanied by a glomeruloid proliferation of small vessels. The inflammatory infiltrate was almost exclusively confined to the choroid and consisted of predominantly T cells. There was conspicuous absence of inflammatory cells in the retina and no histologic evidence of leukocytoclastic vasculitis. CONCLUSIONS: HORV is a rare condition that can lead to profound vision loss. Significant ocular pain can be a presenting sign of HORV in cases with severe iris and ciliary body ischemia. Although it has been suggested that HORV is a form of leukocytoclastic retinal vasculitis, the histologic findings herein indicate that the pathophysiology is more complex. It is grounded in a necrotizing retinal vasculopathy in the absence of retinal vasculitis, chronic nongranulomatous choroiditis, and an unusual glomeruloid proliferation of endothelial cells in the choroid and elsewhere in the eye.
29396543	Ouabain	Fatty Liver	0	1	0	0		Ouabagenin is a naturally occurring LXR ligand without causing hepatic steatosis as a side effect.	Ouabagenin (OBG) is an aglycone of the cardiotonic steroid ouabain and until now was considered a biologically inactive biosynthetic precursor. Herein, we revealed that OBG functions as a novel class of ligand for the liver X receptor (LXR). Luciferase reporter assays and in silico docking studies suggested that OBG has LXR-selective agonistic activity. In addition, OBG repressed the expression of epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), a LXR target gene, without causing hepatic steatosis, a typical side effect of conventional LXR ligands. This remarkable biological activity can be attributed to a unique mode of action; the LXR agonist activity mainly proceeds through the LXRbeta subtype without affecting LXRalpha, unlike conventional LXR ligands. Thus, OBG is a novel class of LXR ligand that does not cause severe side effects, with potential for use as an antihypertensive diuretic or a tool compound for exploring LXR subtype-specific biological functions.
29393920	Benzene	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Residents' Self-Reported Health Effects and Annoyance in Relation to Air Pollution Exposure in an Industrial Area in Eastern-Estonia.	"Eastern Estonia has large oil shale mines and industrial facilities mainly focused on electricity generation from oil shale and shale oil extraction, which produce high air pollution emissions. The ""Study of the health impact of the oil shale sector-SOHOS"" was aimed at identifying the impacts on residents' health and annoyance due to the industrial processing. First, a population-wide survey about health effects and annoyance was carried out. Second, the total and oil shale sectors' emitted concentrations of benzene, phenol, and PM(2.5) were modelled. Third, the differences between groups were tested and relationships between health effects and environmental pollution studied using multiple regression analysis. Compared to the control groups from non-industrial areas in Tartu or Laane-Viru, residents of Ida-Viru more frequently (p < 0.05) reported wheezing, chest tightness, shortness of breath, asthma attacks, a long-term cough, hypertension, heart diseases, myocardial infarction, stroke, and diabetes. All health effects except asthma were reported more frequently among non-Estonians. People living in regions with higher levels of PM(2.5), had significantly higher odds (p < 0.05) of experiencing chest tightness (OR = 1.13, 95% CI 1.02-1.26), shortness of breath (1.16, 1.03-1.31) or an asthma attack (1.22, 1.04-1.42) during the previous year. People living in regions with higher levels of benzene had higher odds of experiencing myocardial infarction (1.98, 1.11-3.53) and with higher levels of phenol chest tightness (1.44, 1.03-2.00), long-term cough (1.48, 1.06-2.07) and myocardial infarction (2.17, 1.23-3.83). The prevalence of adverse health effects was also higher among those who had been working in the oil shale sector. Next to direct health effects, up to a quarter of the residents of Ida-Viru County were highly annoyed about air pollution. Perceived health risk from air pollution increased the odds of being annoyed. Annoyed people in Ida-Viru had significantly higher odds of experiencing respiratory symptoms during the last 12 months, e.g., wheezing (2.30, 1.31-4.04), chest tightness (2.88, 1.91-4.33 or attack of coughing (1.99, 1.34-2.95)."
29393920	Formaldehyde	Diabetes Mellitus	0	1	0	0		Residents' Self-Reported Health Effects and Annoyance in Relation to Air Pollution Exposure in an Industrial Area in Eastern-Estonia.	"Eastern Estonia has large oil shale mines and industrial facilities mainly focused on electricity generation from oil shale and shale oil extraction, which produce high air pollution emissions. The ""Study of the health impact of the oil shale sector-SOHOS"" was aimed at identifying the impacts on residents' health and annoyance due to the industrial processing. First, a population-wide survey about health effects and annoyance was carried out. Second, the total and oil shale sectors' emitted concentrations of benzene, phenol, and PM(2.5) were modelled. Third, the differences between groups were tested and relationships between health effects and environmental pollution studied using multiple regression analysis. Compared to the control groups from non-industrial areas in Tartu or Laane-Viru, residents of Ida-Viru more frequently (p < 0.05) reported wheezing, chest tightness, shortness of breath, asthma attacks, a long-term cough, hypertension, heart diseases, myocardial infarction, stroke, and diabetes. All health effects except asthma were reported more frequently among non-Estonians. People living in regions with higher levels of PM(2.5), had significantly higher odds (p < 0.05) of experiencing chest tightness (OR = 1.13, 95% CI 1.02-1.26), shortness of breath (1.16, 1.03-1.31) or an asthma attack (1.22, 1.04-1.42) during the previous year. People living in regions with higher levels of benzene had higher odds of experiencing myocardial infarction (1.98, 1.11-3.53) and with higher levels of phenol chest tightness (1.44, 1.03-2.00), long-term cough (1.48, 1.06-2.07) and myocardial infarction (2.17, 1.23-3.83). The prevalence of adverse health effects was also higher among those who had been working in the oil shale sector. Next to direct health effects, up to a quarter of the residents of Ida-Viru County were highly annoyed about air pollution. Perceived health risk from air pollution increased the odds of being annoyed. Annoyed people in Ida-Viru had significantly higher odds of experiencing respiratory symptoms during the last 12 months, e.g., wheezing (2.30, 1.31-4.04), chest tightness (2.88, 1.91-4.33 or attack of coughing (1.99, 1.34-2.95)."
29381409	Ipilimumab	Ophthalmoplegia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Complete ophthalmoplegia in Ipilmumab and Nivolumab combination treatment for metastatic melanoma.	Ipilimumab and Nivolumab are novel monoclonal antibodies that have recently been used successfully for treatment of metastatic melanoma. Ipilimumab is a human monoclonal antibody against Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA4) receptor, which suppresses T-cell proliferation and stimulates an inflammatory response against cancer cells. Nivolumab is an IgG4 monoclonal antibody against the cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated programmed death 1 receptor (PD-1). Ipilimumab and Nivolumab combination treatment has been shown to induce remission and prolong survival in patients with metastatic melanoma. The side effect profile of these medications has not been well studied. One entity of the side effects reported in the literature is immune-related adverse events (irAEs). There have been few case reports where these events were serious and irreversible. In this case report, we describe a fatal and severe diffuse panmyositis that involved the cardiac, respiratory, and extraocular muscles in a patient with metastatic melanoma secondary to combination treatment with Ipilimumab/Nivolumab.
29339238	Afatinib	Granuloma, Pyogenic	1	0	0	0		Topical betaxolol for treating relapsing paronychia with pyogenic granuloma-like lesions induced by epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors.	
29339238	Afatinib	Paronychia	1	0	0	0		Topical betaxolol for treating relapsing paronychia with pyogenic granuloma-like lesions induced by epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors.	
29336655	Cetuximab	Cicatrix	1	1	1	1	0.0	Reversible cicatricial ectropion associated with EGFR inhibitors.	The management of cicatricial ectropion resulting from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors is unclear. We describe two cases of bilateral cicatricial ectropion following the use of an EGFR inhibitor who were treated with oral doxycycline, topical ophthalmic steroid and antibiotic ointment to the eyelids, and topical facial steroid cream with lubrication. The first case resolved with discontinuation of panitumumab infusions along with institution of the aforementioned regimen. However, it is unclear whether the resolution was from discontinuation of the infusions or from the instituted regimen. The second case resolved without a dose adjustment of cituximab. This case may provide support for the use of this regimen prior to discontinuation of the offending agent, as there was a successful outcome without alteration of the infusions. Additional cases are necessary to determine if this is a successful means of treating bilateral lower-lid cicatricial ectropion from EGFR inhibitors.
29336655	Cetuximab	Ectropion	1	1	1	1	0.0	Reversible cicatricial ectropion associated with EGFR inhibitors.	The management of cicatricial ectropion resulting from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors is unclear. We describe two cases of bilateral cicatricial ectropion following the use of an EGFR inhibitor who were treated with oral doxycycline, topical ophthalmic steroid and antibiotic ointment to the eyelids, and topical facial steroid cream with lubrication. The first case resolved with discontinuation of panitumumab infusions along with institution of the aforementioned regimen. However, it is unclear whether the resolution was from discontinuation of the infusions or from the instituted regimen. The second case resolved without a dose adjustment of cituximab. This case may provide support for the use of this regimen prior to discontinuation of the offending agent, as there was a successful outcome without alteration of the infusions. Additional cases are necessary to determine if this is a successful means of treating bilateral lower-lid cicatricial ectropion from EGFR inhibitors.
29336655	Panitumumab	Ectropion	1	1	1	1	0.0	Reversible cicatricial ectropion associated with EGFR inhibitors.	The management of cicatricial ectropion resulting from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors is unclear. We describe two cases of bilateral cicatricial ectropion following the use of an EGFR inhibitor who were treated with oral doxycycline, topical ophthalmic steroid and antibiotic ointment to the eyelids, and topical facial steroid cream with lubrication. The first case resolved with discontinuation of panitumumab infusions along with institution of the aforementioned regimen. However, it is unclear whether the resolution was from discontinuation of the infusions or from the instituted regimen. The second case resolved without a dose adjustment of cituximab. This case may provide support for the use of this regimen prior to discontinuation of the offending agent, as there was a successful outcome without alteration of the infusions. Additional cases are necessary to determine if this is a successful means of treating bilateral lower-lid cicatricial ectropion from EGFR inhibitors.
29314197	Infliximab	Vision Disorders	1	0	0	0		Paradoxical localized exacerbation of psoriatic eruptions triggered by secukinumab.	
29303391	Ciprofloxacin	Conjunctival Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between oral fluoroquinolone use and lateral canthal tendon rupture: case report.	It is well established and documented that fluoroquinolone use is associated with the development of tendinopathy. However, little is known about the possible effects of this class of antibiotics on the orbit. We present a case of lateral canthal tendon rupture that presented with an acute right lower eyelid ectropion in a young, renal compromised patient in the setting of recent fluoroquinolone use for pneumonia. Eye care clinicians need to be aware of the possible effects of fluoroquinolones on the eyelids.
29303391	Ciprofloxacin	Ectropion	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between oral fluoroquinolone use and lateral canthal tendon rupture: case report.	It is well established and documented that fluoroquinolone use is associated with the development of tendinopathy. However, little is known about the possible effects of this class of antibiotics on the orbit. We present a case of lateral canthal tendon rupture that presented with an acute right lower eyelid ectropion in a young, renal compromised patient in the setting of recent fluoroquinolone use for pneumonia. Eye care clinicians need to be aware of the possible effects of fluoroquinolones on the eyelids.
29303391	Levofloxacin	Conjunctival Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between oral fluoroquinolone use and lateral canthal tendon rupture: case report.	It is well established and documented that fluoroquinolone use is associated with the development of tendinopathy. However, little is known about the possible effects of this class of antibiotics on the orbit. We present a case of lateral canthal tendon rupture that presented with an acute right lower eyelid ectropion in a young, renal compromised patient in the setting of recent fluoroquinolone use for pneumonia. Eye care clinicians need to be aware of the possible effects of fluoroquinolones on the eyelids.
29303391	Levofloxacin	Tendon Injuries	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between oral fluoroquinolone use and lateral canthal tendon rupture: case report.	It is well established and documented that fluoroquinolone use is associated with the development of tendinopathy. However, little is known about the possible effects of this class of antibiotics on the orbit. We present a case of lateral canthal tendon rupture that presented with an acute right lower eyelid ectropion in a young, renal compromised patient in the setting of recent fluoroquinolone use for pneumonia. Eye care clinicians need to be aware of the possible effects of fluoroquinolones on the eyelids.
29291825	Filgrastim	Acute Kidney Injury	0	0	0	0		The Case | Acute kidney injury in a 78-year-old man with low-grade B-cell lymphoma.	
29291825	Filgrastim	Glomerulonephritis	0	0	0	0		The Case | Acute kidney injury in a 78-year-old man with low-grade B-cell lymphoma.	
29291825	Polyethylene Glycols	Glomerulonephritis	0	0	0	0		The Case | Acute kidney injury in a 78-year-old man with low-grade B-cell lymphoma.	
29254817	Calcium Chloride	Tooth Fractures	0	0	0	0		The Effect of Long-term Dressing with Calcium Hydroxide on the Fracture Susceptibility of Teeth.	INTRODUCTION: Calcium hydroxide has been widely used to treat immature teeth to achieve periodontal healing and to promote the formation of an apical barrier. However, retrospective clinical studies have shown a high incidence of cervical root fractures with long-term calcium hydroxide dressing. The alkalinity of calcium hydroxide has been suggested to weaken the root. In vitro studies using ovine teeth show conflicting results on fracture strength of dentine, although different commercial products may have influenced the results. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 2 commercial products used in prior studies (Calasept Plus and UltraCal XS), as well as a new product (Calmix) that uses a nonaqueous vehicle that allows for a higher pH, on the fracture strength of dentine over time. METHODS: A total of 330 lamb incisor teeth were collected and the canals prepared so that 3 commercial calcium hydroxide products as well as a positive control of pure calcium hydroxide slurry that filled the root canal from the open apex and a negative control of saline was tested. The teeth were loaded until fracture with a universal testing machine at time points 0, 3, 6, and 9 months and the force to fracture was calculated. The data were analyzed with Friedman analysis of variance and Mann-Whitney t tests. RESULTS: No statistical differences were observed between the different calcium hydroxide products and the negative controls. CONCLUSIONS: Thin and fragile roots could be the cause of fracture rather than the calcium hydroxide dressing.
29254817	Potassium Chloride	Tooth Fractures	0	0	0	0		The Effect of Long-term Dressing with Calcium Hydroxide on the Fracture Susceptibility of Teeth.	INTRODUCTION: Calcium hydroxide has been widely used to treat immature teeth to achieve periodontal healing and to promote the formation of an apical barrier. However, retrospective clinical studies have shown a high incidence of cervical root fractures with long-term calcium hydroxide dressing. The alkalinity of calcium hydroxide has been suggested to weaken the root. In vitro studies using ovine teeth show conflicting results on fracture strength of dentine, although different commercial products may have influenced the results. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 2 commercial products used in prior studies (Calasept Plus and UltraCal XS), as well as a new product (Calmix) that uses a nonaqueous vehicle that allows for a higher pH, on the fracture strength of dentine over time. METHODS: A total of 330 lamb incisor teeth were collected and the canals prepared so that 3 commercial calcium hydroxide products as well as a positive control of pure calcium hydroxide slurry that filled the root canal from the open apex and a negative control of saline was tested. The teeth were loaded until fracture with a universal testing machine at time points 0, 3, 6, and 9 months and the force to fracture was calculated. The data were analyzed with Friedman analysis of variance and Mann-Whitney t tests. RESULTS: No statistical differences were observed between the different calcium hydroxide products and the negative controls. CONCLUSIONS: Thin and fragile roots could be the cause of fracture rather than the calcium hydroxide dressing.
29254817	Sodium Bicarbonate	Tooth Fractures	0	0	0	0		The Effect of Long-term Dressing with Calcium Hydroxide on the Fracture Susceptibility of Teeth.	INTRODUCTION: Calcium hydroxide has been widely used to treat immature teeth to achieve periodontal healing and to promote the formation of an apical barrier. However, retrospective clinical studies have shown a high incidence of cervical root fractures with long-term calcium hydroxide dressing. The alkalinity of calcium hydroxide has been suggested to weaken the root. In vitro studies using ovine teeth show conflicting results on fracture strength of dentine, although different commercial products may have influenced the results. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 2 commercial products used in prior studies (Calasept Plus and UltraCal XS), as well as a new product (Calmix) that uses a nonaqueous vehicle that allows for a higher pH, on the fracture strength of dentine over time. METHODS: A total of 330 lamb incisor teeth were collected and the canals prepared so that 3 commercial calcium hydroxide products as well as a positive control of pure calcium hydroxide slurry that filled the root canal from the open apex and a negative control of saline was tested. The teeth were loaded until fracture with a universal testing machine at time points 0, 3, 6, and 9 months and the force to fracture was calculated. The data were analyzed with Friedman analysis of variance and Mann-Whitney t tests. RESULTS: No statistical differences were observed between the different calcium hydroxide products and the negative controls. CONCLUSIONS: Thin and fragile roots could be the cause of fracture rather than the calcium hydroxide dressing.
29254817	Sodium Chloride	Tooth Fractures	0	0	0	0		The Effect of Long-term Dressing with Calcium Hydroxide on the Fracture Susceptibility of Teeth.	INTRODUCTION: Calcium hydroxide has been widely used to treat immature teeth to achieve periodontal healing and to promote the formation of an apical barrier. However, retrospective clinical studies have shown a high incidence of cervical root fractures with long-term calcium hydroxide dressing. The alkalinity of calcium hydroxide has been suggested to weaken the root. In vitro studies using ovine teeth show conflicting results on fracture strength of dentine, although different commercial products may have influenced the results. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of 2 commercial products used in prior studies (Calasept Plus and UltraCal XS), as well as a new product (Calmix) that uses a nonaqueous vehicle that allows for a higher pH, on the fracture strength of dentine over time. METHODS: A total of 330 lamb incisor teeth were collected and the canals prepared so that 3 commercial calcium hydroxide products as well as a positive control of pure calcium hydroxide slurry that filled the root canal from the open apex and a negative control of saline was tested. The teeth were loaded until fracture with a universal testing machine at time points 0, 3, 6, and 9 months and the force to fracture was calculated. The data were analyzed with Friedman analysis of variance and Mann-Whitney t tests. RESULTS: No statistical differences were observed between the different calcium hydroxide products and the negative controls. CONCLUSIONS: Thin and fragile roots could be the cause of fracture rather than the calcium hydroxide dressing.
29226837	Topiramate	Kidney Calculi	1	0	0	0		Nephrolithiasis associated with the use of topiramate in children.	
29181880	Zirconium	Gingivitis	0	0	0	0		Histological evaluations and inflammatory responses of different dental implant abutment materials: A human histology pilot study.	BACKGROUND: Improvements of soft tissue to the abutment surface results in more stable peri-implant conditions, however, few human histological studies have compared soft tissue responses around different abutment materials. PURPOSE: To describe the peri-implant tissue around 3 abutment materials; titanium, zirconia, and gold alloy, over an 8-week healing period. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen edentulous sites were treated with implants. Eight weeks later, peri-implant tissue was harvested and processed using a nonseparation resin embedded technique. The tissue attachment characteristics were assessed at clinical stages using the gingival index (GI) score, surgical stage (surgical score), and histological stage (histological attachment percentage). Additionally, the inflammatory responses were evaluated using inflammatory extent and inflammatory cellularity grades. Nonparametrical statistics were used to describe the GI and surgical scores, and analytical statistics were used to analyze the histological attachment percentages as well as the inflammatory extent and cellularity grades amongst the 3 groups. RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences among the groups for GI score (P = .071) and surgical score (P = .262). Titanium and zirconia exhibited nearly similar mean histological attachment percentages while gold alloy had a significantly lower percentage (P = .004). For the inflammatory extent and cellularity grades, the odds of being one grade higher for gold alloy abutment was 5.18 and 17.8 times that of titanium abutment, respectively. However, for the zirconia abutment, the odds were 0.87 and 7.5 times higher than the titanium group. CONCLUSIONS: The tissue around the gold alloy abutments resulted in worse attachment conditions compared with the titanium and zirconia abutments. Inflammation tended to be higher in the tissue around the gold alloy abutments than the titanium and zirconia abutments.
29150154	Clobetasol	Carcinoma in Situ	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) associated with cosmetic skin whitening: 8 cases reported in Senegal.	BACKGROUND: The cosmetic use of bleaching products is common among women from sub-Saharan Africa. The most frequently used products are highly potent corticosteroids (clobetasol propionate) and hydroquinone. Herein, we report 8 cases of SCC in women using skin bleaching products for cosmetic purposes. Our aim is to describe the epidemiological, clinical and pathological aspects of the carcinomas observed during the course of skin lightening. METHODS: We conducted a descriptive multicentre study from August 2005 to January 2016 in three dermatology units in Senegal. We included all patients consulting for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma associated with skin bleaching. Sociodemographic, clinical, paraclinical and therapeutic data were recorded. RESULTS: A total of 8 female patients were included. The mean age was 48.1 years (37-63 years). Topical hydroquinone and highly potent corticosteroids were the main products used over the whole body, for an average duration of 20.3 years. No pre-neoplastic skin disease was found in our patients. The clinical aspects of tumours were as follows: cauliflower-like (n=4), ulcerated (n=3) and nodular (n=1). The average development time before consultation was 6.75 months. All the cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas were localized to lichenoid lesions or exogenous ochronotic lesions on photo-exposed areas: face (n=1), neck (n=3) or upper back (n=4). The most common histopathological type was the infiltrating form and there was one case of in situ carcinoma. The outcome was favourable in six of eight patients after surgical resection. Two deaths occurred: one through tumour recurrence and the other through haemorrhagic shock. CONCLUSIONS: From 2005 to 2016, eight cases of cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas associated with cosmetic use of bleaching products were reported in Senegal. The mechanism was not fully elucidated and further studies are necessary. These observations provide an additional argument for combating this practice and including skin bleaching among known risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma.
29150154	Clobetasol	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) associated with cosmetic skin whitening: 8 cases reported in Senegal.	BACKGROUND: The cosmetic use of bleaching products is common among women from sub-Saharan Africa. The most frequently used products are highly potent corticosteroids (clobetasol propionate) and hydroquinone. Herein, we report 8 cases of SCC in women using skin bleaching products for cosmetic purposes. Our aim is to describe the epidemiological, clinical and pathological aspects of the carcinomas observed during the course of skin lightening. METHODS: We conducted a descriptive multicentre study from August 2005 to January 2016 in three dermatology units in Senegal. We included all patients consulting for cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma associated with skin bleaching. Sociodemographic, clinical, paraclinical and therapeutic data were recorded. RESULTS: A total of 8 female patients were included. The mean age was 48.1 years (37-63 years). Topical hydroquinone and highly potent corticosteroids were the main products used over the whole body, for an average duration of 20.3 years. No pre-neoplastic skin disease was found in our patients. The clinical aspects of tumours were as follows: cauliflower-like (n=4), ulcerated (n=3) and nodular (n=1). The average development time before consultation was 6.75 months. All the cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas were localized to lichenoid lesions or exogenous ochronotic lesions on photo-exposed areas: face (n=1), neck (n=3) or upper back (n=4). The most common histopathological type was the infiltrating form and there was one case of in situ carcinoma. The outcome was favourable in six of eight patients after surgical resection. Two deaths occurred: one through tumour recurrence and the other through haemorrhagic shock. CONCLUSIONS: From 2005 to 2016, eight cases of cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas associated with cosmetic use of bleaching products were reported in Senegal. The mechanism was not fully elucidated and further studies are necessary. These observations provide an additional argument for combating this practice and including skin bleaching among known risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma.
28971230	Lisuride	Memory Disorders	1	0	0	0		Effects of 2-bromoterguride, a dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist, on cognitive dysfunction and social aversion in rats.	RATIONALE: 2-Bromoterguride, a dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist with antagonist properties at serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptors and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors, meets the prerequisites of a putative atypical antipsychotic drug (APD). We recently showed that 2-bromoterguride is effective in tests of positive symptoms of schizophrenia in rats without inducing extrapyramidal side effects or metabolic changes. OBJECTIVE: In continuation of our recent work, we now investigated the effect of 2-bromoterguride on apomorphine and phencyclidine (PCP)-induced disruptions of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response, a measure of sensory gating. In addition, we used subchronic PCP treatment to produce cognitive deficits and social aversion, and assessed the effect of 2-bromoterguride on the performance in the novel object recognition (NOR) task (model for studying cognitive deficit symptoms of schizophrenia) and the social interaction test (model for studying negative symptoms of schizophrenia). Finally, we extended the side effect profile of 2-bromoterguride by measuring the prolactin response to systemic administration of the drug in rats. RESULTS: Treatment with 2-bromoterguride (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) reversed PPI deficits induced by apomorphine and PCP, respectively. Subchronic PCP induced impairments in object memory and social interaction behavior which were ameliorated by 2-bromoterguride but not by clozapine and aripiprazole, respectively. Prolactin concentration in blood serum was not elevated at 1, 2, or 4 h post-2-bromoterguride treatment, which further supports the safe and effective use of this drug. CONCLUSIONS: Our data support 2-bromoterguride as a promising APD candidate due to its beneficial effect on cognitive impairments and negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
28917573	Acitretin	Pregnancy Complications	1	0	0	0		[Still too many pregnancies with Soriatane((R))].	
28847562	Dronabinol	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cannabis use during pregnancy: Pharmacokinetics and effects on child development.	The broad-based legalization of cannabis use has created a strong need to understand its impact on human health and behavior. The risks that may be associated with cannabis use, particularly for sensitive subgroups such as pregnant women, are difficult to define because of a paucity of dose-response data and the recent increase in cannabis potency. Although there is a large body of evidence detailing the mode of action of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in adults, little work has focused on understanding how cannabis use during pregnancy may impact the development of the fetal nervous system and whether additional plant-derived cannabinoids might participate. This manuscript presents an overview of the historical and contemporary literature focused on the mode of action of THC in the developing brain, comparative pharmacokinetics in both pregnant and nonpregnant model systems and neurodevelopmental outcomes in exposed offspring. Despite growing public health significance, pharmacokinetic studies of THC have focused on nonpregnant adult subjects and there are few published reports on disposition parameters during pregnancy. Data from preclinical species show that THC readily crosses the placenta although fetal exposures appear lower than maternal exposures. The neurodevelopmental data in humans and animals suggest that prenatal exposure to THC may lead to subtle, persistent changes in targeted aspects of higher-level cognition and psychological well-being. There is an urgent need for well-controlled studies in humans and preclinical models on THC as a developmental neurotoxicant. Until more information is available, pregnant women should not assume that using cannabis during pregnancy is safe.
28496169	Cadmium	Psoriasis	0	1	0	0		Exploring the link between cadmium and psoriasis in a nationally representative sample.	"Psoriasis, a skin inflammatory disease, originates from dysregulated interactions of the immune system. Cadmium, an environment pollutant, increases the levels of inflammation markers and influences the immune system. To clarify the relationship between cadmium and psoriasis, 5,927 participants, >/=20 years, in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2003-2006 were studied. Psoriasis severity was assessed using self-reported dermatology questionnaires. Cadmium was measured using blood chemistry. Three adjusted models were applied for the interaction between serum cadmium and severity of psoriasis. Psoriasis patients had significantly higher blood cadmium (0.67 vs. 0.52 mug/L, p = 0.006). There was a strong linear increase in predicted blood cadmium values with an increase in severity of psoriasis (p for trend = 0.002). The beta coefficient of the predicted serum cadmium in the ""few patches to extensive psoriasis"" group was 0.234 (p = 0.002) after adjusting covariates. Participants with severe psoriasis have higher blood cadmium. Environmental exposure to cadmium can predispose to the worsening of psoriasis. Although there are still limitations in this study, such as not included treatment data, these results have substantial public health implications for the general population, as they demonstrate the importance of cadmium exposure prevention, particularly among psoriasis patients."
28432410	Lenalidomide	Eosinophilia	1	0	0	0		Complete radiologic and molecular response of HIV-negative primary effusion lymphoma with short-course lenalidomide.	
28391438	Allopurinol	Pigmentation Disorders	1	0	0	0		Purpuric exanthema in a patient with hairy cell leukemia treated with cladribine and allopurinol.	
28391438	Allopurinol	Purpura	1	0	0	0		Purpuric exanthema in a patient with hairy cell leukemia treated with cladribine and allopurinol.	
28391438	Cladribine	Pigmentation Disorders	1	0	0	0		Purpuric exanthema in a patient with hairy cell leukemia treated with cladribine and allopurinol.	
28391438	Cladribine	Purpura	1	0	0	0		Purpuric exanthema in a patient with hairy cell leukemia treated with cladribine and allopurinol.	
28072397	Ethanol	Hyperphagia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Agrp neuron activity is required for alcohol-induced overeating.	Alcohol intake associates with overeating in humans. This overeating is a clinical concern, but its causes are puzzling, because alcohol (ethanol) is a calorie-dense nutrient, and calorie intake usually suppresses brain appetite signals. The biological factors necessary for ethanol-induced overeating remain unclear, and societal causes have been proposed. Here we show that core elements of the brain's feeding circuits-the hypothalamic Agrp neurons that are normally activated by starvation and evoke intense hunger-display electrical and biochemical hyperactivity on exposure to dietary doses of ethanol in brain slices. Furthermore, by circuit-specific chemogenetic interference in vivo, we find that the Agrp cell activity is essential for ethanol-induced overeating in the absence of societal factors, in single-housed mice. These data reveal how a widely consumed nutrient can paradoxically sustain brain starvation signals, and identify a biological factor required for appetite evoked by alcohol.
27840304	Zidovudine	Neurocognitive Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Mitochondrial defects arise from nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors in neurons: Potential contribution to HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders.	The cornerstone of current HIV treatment is a class of drugs called nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). However, patients who receive long term treatment with NRTIs often develop severe side effects, which are related to mitochondrial toxicity. The potential contribution of NRTI-mediated toxicity to HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) has not been fully explored. NRTI toxicity is thought to be mediated through mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (pol gamma) inhibition, which impairs mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) synthesis and leads to various mitochondrial dysfunctions. To evaluate the relationship between NRTI-mediated pol gamma inhibition and mitochondrial toxicity in neurons, we systematically investigated mitochondrial regulation in NRTI-treated primary cortical neurons by measuring parameters related to mtDNA content, retrograde signaling responses and mitochondrial homeostasis. The effects of four different NRTIs with variable pol gamma inhibitory activity and mitochondrial toxicity were assessed. The strong pol gamma inhibitor, ddI, abolished mtDNA synthesis and greatly reduced mtDNA content. However, mtDNA transcription was not as severely affected, and no defects in oxidative phosphorylation were observed. Detrimental effects on mitochondrial respiration and motility were observed after AZT treatment in the absence of mtDNA depletion or inhibition of mtDNA synthesis. The results suggest that individual NRTIs, such as ddI and AZT, have the potential to cause mitochondrial toxicity in neurons. This mitochondrial toxicity would be expected to contribute to neurotoxicity in the central nervous system, and therefore, HAND etiology may be affected by NRTI treatment.
30260467	Bortezomib	Bipolar Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Mania Associated with the Use of Bortezomib and Dexamethasone].	Bortezomib, an antineoplastic agent used in Multiple Myeloma, is a modified dipeptidyl boronic acid that is selectively and reversibly attached to the 26S proteasome. Bortezomib may be combined with corticosteroids in treatment-resistant multiple myeloma patients. Corticosteroids can cause many psychiatric disorders ncluding mania, depression, psychosis, delirium, suicide and aggression. To date only one case of mania associated with the use of bortezomib was reported in which the patient responded to the treatment with olanzapine and valproic acid. In this article, we present a 57-year-old female with multiple myeloma in whom mania developed after the use of bortezomib combined with dexamethasone.Psychiatric symptoms such as sleep deprivation, increased self-esteem and excessive speech appeared within the first week of bortezomib and dexamethasone treatment. Quetiapine was administered for the treatment of psychiatric symptoms. A gradual improvement was noted in manic symptoms after treatment. Bortezomib is a relatively new drug and there are only a few reports with respect to its psychiatric side effects. While using antineoplastic drugs such as bortezomib, caution should be exercised with regards to the psychiatric symptoms.
30189305	Cabergoline	Pituitary Apoplexy	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pituitary Apoplexy in Long-Term Cabergoline User During Thrombocytopenia Due to Chemotherapy for Chronic Myelocytic Leukemia.	BACKGROUND: Pituitary apoplexy (PA) is a life-threatening syndrome. The usage of a dopamine agonist, such as bromocriptine or cabergoline, is considered a predisposing factor for PA, which commonly occurs 1.5 years within commencement. CASE DESCRIPTION: A 64-year-old female with a >15-year history of cabergoline therapy for pituitary prolactinoma was referred to our department of neurosurgery after complaining of headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and ptosis for 3 days during hospital admission for chemotherapy of chronic myelocytic leukemia. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed findings indicative of PA. As the patient was experiencing thrombocytopenia related to chemotherapy, blood transfusion was preceded, and after a platelet count of 15.0 x 104/muL was confirmed, transnasal neuroendoscopic surgery was performed 5 days from the onset of symptoms. The majority of the prolactinoma was removed, and the prolactinoma in the cavernous sinus was intentionally left. The postoperative course was generally good. The ptosis and diplopia improved, and the blurred vision resolved. CONCLUSIONS: PA related to dopamine agonist therapy can occur in cases of elevated bleeding tendency, even in long-term users, suggesting that attention should be paid in the administration of a dopamine agonist in the patient experiencing thrombocytopenia. Surgical intervention should be performed after the preoperative platelet number and adequate response to transfusion are confirmed, and the aggressive removal of prolactinoma in the cavernous sinus should be avoided to reduce the risk of hemorrhagic complications.
30150336	Vancomycin	Epistaxis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Documented vancomycin-induced severe immune-mediated thrombocytopaenia.	A 69-year-old man developed Propionibacterium acnes left knee hardware infection after suffering from an infected ingrown toenail. The hardware was removed and he was treated with intravenous vancomycin. Ten days after initiation of vancomycin, he developed severe thrombocytopaenia, epistaxis and petechiae. Vancomycin was discontinued, and platelets rapidly recovered. Serum vancomycin IgG were positive. Patient completed a 6-week course of ceftriaxone with no further complications.
29722042	Bicarbonates	Bundle-Branch Block	1	1	0	1	1.0	Bicarbonate refractory QRS prolongation and left bundle-branch block following escitalopram and lamotrigine overdose: A case report and literature review of toxic left bundle-branch block.	WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Toxic prolongation of the QRS interval most often results from blockade of cardiac voltage-gated sodium channels and manifests on electrocardiogram with a right bundle-branch block-like morphology. Rarely, a left bundle-branch block (LBBB) morphology has been reported. CASE REPORT: We report a case of transient LBBB resultant from ingestion of lamotrigine and citalopram which was refractory to sodium bicarbonate therapy and eventually resolved spontaneously. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Cases of toxic LBBB are less likely to respond to bicarbonate therapy, suggesting that this finding is due to a mechanism other than sodium channel blockade.
29722042	Citalopram	Bundle-Branch Block	1	1	0	1	1.0	Bicarbonate refractory QRS prolongation and left bundle-branch block following escitalopram and lamotrigine overdose: A case report and literature review of toxic left bundle-branch block.	WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Toxic prolongation of the QRS interval most often results from blockade of cardiac voltage-gated sodium channels and manifests on electrocardiogram with a right bundle-branch block-like morphology. Rarely, a left bundle-branch block (LBBB) morphology has been reported. CASE REPORT: We report a case of transient LBBB resultant from ingestion of lamotrigine and citalopram which was refractory to sodium bicarbonate therapy and eventually resolved spontaneously. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Cases of toxic LBBB are less likely to respond to bicarbonate therapy, suggesting that this finding is due to a mechanism other than sodium channel blockade.
29722042	Lamotrigine	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	1	1	0	1	1.0	Bicarbonate refractory QRS prolongation and left bundle-branch block following escitalopram and lamotrigine overdose: A case report and literature review of toxic left bundle-branch block.	WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Toxic prolongation of the QRS interval most often results from blockade of cardiac voltage-gated sodium channels and manifests on electrocardiogram with a right bundle-branch block-like morphology. Rarely, a left bundle-branch block (LBBB) morphology has been reported. CASE REPORT: We report a case of transient LBBB resultant from ingestion of lamotrigine and citalopram which was refractory to sodium bicarbonate therapy and eventually resolved spontaneously. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Cases of toxic LBBB are less likely to respond to bicarbonate therapy, suggesting that this finding is due to a mechanism other than sodium channel blockade.
29350406	Thalidomide	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous hyperpigmentation induced by apremilast.	
28440761	Insulin	Bone Resorption	0	0	0	0		Recommendations on the effect of antidiabetic drugs in bone.	"OBJECTIVE: To provide recommendations on the effect of antidiabetic drugs on bone fragility to help select the most adequate antidiabetic treatment, especially in diabetic patients with high risk of fracture. PARTICIPANTS: Members of the Bone Metabolism Working Group of the Spanish Society of Endocrinology. METHODS: The GRADE system (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) was used to establish both the strength of recommendations and the quality of evidence. A systematic search was made in MEDLINE (Pubmed) using the following terms associated to the name of each antidiabetic drug: AND ""osteoporosis"", ""fractures"", ""bone mineral density"", ""bone markers"", ""calciotropic hormones"". Papers in English with publication date before 30 April 2016 were reviewed. Recommendations were jointly discussed by the Working Group. CONCLUSIONS: The document summaries the data on the potential effects of antidiabetic drugs on bone metabolism and fracture risk."
28403424	Sevoflurane	Seizures	1	0	0	0		Maternal convulsion during high-dose sevoflurane anaesthesia for open foetal surgery.	
27523276	Allopurinol	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		Drug Reaction, Eosinophilia, and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) syndrome associated with allopurinol leading to acute necrotizing eosinophilic myocarditis and death due to papillary muscle rupture.	
30025371	Natalizumab	Myocardial Infarction	1	0	0	0		Myocardial infarction in a patient with multiple sclerosis after receiving natalizumab.	Natalizumab is among the most effective drugs for controlling multiple sclerosis (MS). The most important side effect of this drug is progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, although some other complications are increasingly reported in literature such as meningitis and encephalitis. Here, a patient with MS who has suffered from myocardial infarction (MI) after the injection of natalizumab is introduced.
29873946	Modafinil	Bipolar Disorder	1	0	0	0		Modafinil-Induced Mania in an Elderly Man.	
29246395	Sevoflurane	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		Cardiac arrest related to anaesthesia in Williams-Beuren syndrome.	Williams-Beuren syndrome is the clinical manifestation of a congenital genetic disorder in the elastin gene, among others. There is a history of cardiac arrest refractory to resuscitation manoeuvres in anaesthesia. The incidence of myocardial ischaemia is high during anaesthetic induction, but there are patients who do not have this condition yet also have had very serious cardiac events, and issues that are still to be resolved. Case descriptions will enable the common pathophysiological factors to be defined, and decrease morbidity and mortality. We report the case of a 3-year-old boy with cardiac arrest at induction, rescued with circulatory assistance with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and hypothermia induced for cerebral protection.
29246395	Sevoflurane	Intraoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Cardiac arrest related to anaesthesia in Williams-Beuren syndrome.	Williams-Beuren syndrome is the clinical manifestation of a congenital genetic disorder in the elastin gene, among others. There is a history of cardiac arrest refractory to resuscitation manoeuvres in anaesthesia. The incidence of myocardial ischaemia is high during anaesthetic induction, but there are patients who do not have this condition yet also have had very serious cardiac events, and issues that are still to be resolved. Case descriptions will enable the common pathophysiological factors to be defined, and decrease morbidity and mortality. We report the case of a 3-year-old boy with cardiac arrest at induction, rescued with circulatory assistance with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and hypothermia induced for cerebral protection.
27611806	Midazolam	Pain, Procedural	0	0	0	0		Propofol versus midazolam for premedication: a placebo‑controlled, randomized double‑blinded study.	BACKGROUND: It has been previously reported that subhypnotic doses of propofol could offer an advantage over midazolam for premedication. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that a 20 mg IV dose of propofol would be more effective than a standard 2 mg IV dose of midazolam for reducing acute anxiety prior to induction of anesthesia. METHODS: One hundred twenty outpatients scheduled to undergo orthopedic surgery were randomly assigned to one of three study groups: control (saline); propofol (20 mg); or midazolam (2 mg). Immediately before administering the study medication, each patient evaluated their level of acute anxiety and sedation on 11‑point verbal rating scales (VRSs) 0=none- 10=highest, and they were also shown a picture. Upon arrival in the OR ~5 min after administering the study medication, anxiety and sedation levels were reassessed and a second picture was shown. At discharge from the recovery area, anxiety and sedation levels and their ability to recall the two pictures were reassessed. RESULTS: Compared to the saline group, both propofol and midazolam produced significant increases in the patient's level of sedation upon entering the OR (+2.5+/-2.4 vs. +4.6+/-2.5 and +5.2+/-2.3, respectively [p<0.001]). Propofol was effective as midazolam compared to saline in reducing the patient's level of preinduction anxiety (from 3.2+/-2.2 to1.8+/-1.8 vs. 3.1+/-2.2 to 2.3+/-2.1 and 2.7+/-1.8 to 2.8+/-2.1, respectively). Propofol produced more pain on injection and midazolam significantly reduced recall of the second picture. CONCLUSIONS: When administered ~5 min prior to entering the OR, propofol, 20mg IV, was as effective as midazolam 2mg IV in reducing anxiety.
27611806	Propofol	Pain, Procedural	0	0	0	0		Propofol versus midazolam for premedication: a placebo‑controlled, randomized double‑blinded study.	BACKGROUND: It has been previously reported that subhypnotic doses of propofol could offer an advantage over midazolam for premedication. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that a 20 mg IV dose of propofol would be more effective than a standard 2 mg IV dose of midazolam for reducing acute anxiety prior to induction of anesthesia. METHODS: One hundred twenty outpatients scheduled to undergo orthopedic surgery were randomly assigned to one of three study groups: control (saline); propofol (20 mg); or midazolam (2 mg). Immediately before administering the study medication, each patient evaluated their level of acute anxiety and sedation on 11‑point verbal rating scales (VRSs) 0=none- 10=highest, and they were also shown a picture. Upon arrival in the OR ~5 min after administering the study medication, anxiety and sedation levels were reassessed and a second picture was shown. At discharge from the recovery area, anxiety and sedation levels and their ability to recall the two pictures were reassessed. RESULTS: Compared to the saline group, both propofol and midazolam produced significant increases in the patient's level of sedation upon entering the OR (+2.5+/-2.4 vs. +4.6+/-2.5 and +5.2+/-2.3, respectively [p<0.001]). Propofol was effective as midazolam compared to saline in reducing the patient's level of preinduction anxiety (from 3.2+/-2.2 to1.8+/-1.8 vs. 3.1+/-2.2 to 2.3+/-2.1 and 2.7+/-1.8 to 2.8+/-2.1, respectively). Propofol produced more pain on injection and midazolam significantly reduced recall of the second picture. CONCLUSIONS: When administered ~5 min prior to entering the OR, propofol, 20mg IV, was as effective as midazolam 2mg IV in reducing anxiety.
30222638	Pregabalin	Leukoencephalopathies	1	1	0	1	1.0	Triphasic Waves and Encephalopathy in the Setting of Pregabalin Toxicity.	EEG triphasic waves are usually seen in the setting of metabolic encephalopathies, but may also occur secondary to medication toxicity. There are few reports of medications causing continuous triphasic waves, and only rare reports in the literature show an association between these discharges and pregabalin toxicity. Here, we describe triphasic waves in a patient with underlying white matter lesions, as well as pregabalin toxicity, secondary to renal insufficiency. Patients with renal or hepatic failure presenting with triphasic waves and confusion pose a diagnostic challenge in determining whether the etiology of their encephalopathy is purely metabolic or whether it results from impaired medication clearance and subsequent toxicity. In this patient, discontinuing pregabalin improved her EEG despite the ongoing renal insufficiency, confirming pregabalin toxicity as an etiology of triphasic waves and encephalopathy.
30142745	Adalimumab	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell	1	0	0	0		Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix arising in a patient on adalimumab � a need for cervical screenings in patients on tumor necrosis factor inhibitors.	Adalimumab, a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor, has been approved for treatment of hidradenitis suppurativa. We report a case of cervical cancer in a patient with hidradenitis suppurativa taking adalimumab, which prompted discontinuation of the medication. Physicians should obtain a detailed cervical medical history before putting a female patient on a TNF inhibitor. Patients on TNF inhibitors who have pre-existing cervical issues such as human papillomavirus (HPV), dysplasia, or high grade intraepithelial lesions should be counseled about an increased risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the cervix while on a TNF inhibitor. Furthermore, patients on TNF inhibitors should comply with the national screening guidelines for cervical cancer and be tested for human papillomavirus.
30142745	Adalimumab	Uterine Cervical Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix arising in a patient on adalimumab � a need for cervical screenings in patients on tumor necrosis factor inhibitors.	Adalimumab, a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor, has been approved for treatment of hidradenitis suppurativa. We report a case of cervical cancer in a patient with hidradenitis suppurativa taking adalimumab, which prompted discontinuation of the medication. Physicians should obtain a detailed cervical medical history before putting a female patient on a TNF inhibitor. Patients on TNF inhibitors who have pre-existing cervical issues such as human papillomavirus (HPV), dysplasia, or high grade intraepithelial lesions should be counseled about an increased risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the cervix while on a TNF inhibitor. Furthermore, patients on TNF inhibitors should comply with the national screening guidelines for cervical cancer and be tested for human papillomavirus.
30142734	Leflunomide	Skin Diseases	1	1	1	1	1.0	Perforating disorder secondary to leflunomide and review of the literature of medications associated with perforating disorder.	The perforating dermatoses are a group of disorders characterized by transepidermal elimination of a material from the upper dermis. The most widely accepted classification consists of four primary perforating disorders that are defined by the type of material eliminated and the type of epidermal disruption. Pathogenesis of the perforating dermatoses is poorly understood, but some appear to have a genetic component. There are also acquired forms, which have been associated with underlying systemic diseases and the use of certain drugs. In this report, we describe a perforating disorder that occurred secondary to leflunomide therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which this has been reported. We also review the recent literature on medications associated with perforating disorders.
29400079	Simvastatin	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Drug Eruption to Rosuvastatin With Recurrence on Simvastatin: A Case Report.	
28920470	Silver Nitrate	Nail Diseases	0	0	0	0		Silver Nitrate Staining of the Fingernails.	
28915162	Gadolinium	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	1	0	0		The Effect of Perinatal Gadolinium-Based Contrast Agents on Adult Mice Behavior.	OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the effects of perinatal exposure to gadolinium (Gd)-based contrast agents (GBCAs) on the behavior of adulthood offspring. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pregnant Balb/C mice (n = 5 per group) were intravenously injected with gadoterate meglumine (Magnescope, macrocyclic GBCA), gadodiamide (Omniscan, linear GBCA), or vehicle from pregnancy day 15 to 19, corresponding to embryonic day 15 to 19 of the fetus, at 2 mmol/kg body weight per day. Brain samples from dams and pups were collected on postpartum day 28. The total Gd concentration was quantified by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (dams, n = 3; gadoterate meglumine-treated pups group, n = 9; and gadodiamide-treated pups group, n = 10). Behavioral testing of offspring was started on postpartum day 70 (control group, n = 22; gadoterate meglumine-treated group, n = 23; and gadodiamide-treated group, n = 20). RESULTS: Higher levels of Gd retention were observed in dams and pups in the gadodiamide-treated group. Perinatal exposure to GBCAs caused anxiety-like behavior, disrupted motor coordination, impaired memory function, stimulated tactile sensitivity, and decreased muscle strength, particularly in the gadodiamide-treated group. CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, we showed that Gd was transferred to pups and was retained in their brain during postnatal development. Gadolinium retention may lead to impaired brain development. These findings indicate that the use of GBCAs in pregnant women should be avoided because it may have adverse effects on the fetus, particularly on brain development.
28915162	Meglumine	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	1	0	0		The Effect of Perinatal Gadolinium-Based Contrast Agents on Adult Mice Behavior.	OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the effects of perinatal exposure to gadolinium (Gd)-based contrast agents (GBCAs) on the behavior of adulthood offspring. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pregnant Balb/C mice (n = 5 per group) were intravenously injected with gadoterate meglumine (Magnescope, macrocyclic GBCA), gadodiamide (Omniscan, linear GBCA), or vehicle from pregnancy day 15 to 19, corresponding to embryonic day 15 to 19 of the fetus, at 2 mmol/kg body weight per day. Brain samples from dams and pups were collected on postpartum day 28. The total Gd concentration was quantified by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (dams, n = 3; gadoterate meglumine-treated pups group, n = 9; and gadodiamide-treated pups group, n = 10). Behavioral testing of offspring was started on postpartum day 70 (control group, n = 22; gadoterate meglumine-treated group, n = 23; and gadodiamide-treated group, n = 20). RESULTS: Higher levels of Gd retention were observed in dams and pups in the gadodiamide-treated group. Perinatal exposure to GBCAs caused anxiety-like behavior, disrupted motor coordination, impaired memory function, stimulated tactile sensitivity, and decreased muscle strength, particularly in the gadodiamide-treated group. CONCLUSIONS: In the present study, we showed that Gd was transferred to pups and was retained in their brain during postnatal development. Gadolinium retention may lead to impaired brain development. These findings indicate that the use of GBCAs in pregnant women should be avoided because it may have adverse effects on the fetus, particularly on brain development.
27845869	Paclitaxel	Glomerulonephritis	1	0	0	0		Immune Complex-Mediated Proliferative Glomerulonephritis Induced by Paclitaxel Treatment.	
27845869	Paclitaxel	Immune Complex Diseases	1	0	0	0		Immune Complex-Mediated Proliferative Glomerulonephritis Induced by Paclitaxel Treatment.	
30247099	Emtricitabine, Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Drug Combination	Bone Diseases	0	0	0	0		Health Care Costs in a Cohort of HIV-Infected U.S. Veterans Receiving Regimens Containing Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate/Emtricitabine.	BACKGROUND: Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), a key component in many human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) treatment regimens, is associated with increased renal and bone toxicities. The contributions of such toxicities to treatment costs, as well as the relative differences in treatment costs for various TDF/emtricitabine (FTC) regimens, remains unexplored. OBJECTIVE: To estimate and compare mean overall and renal- and bone-specific costs, including total, inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy costs in patients treated with TDF/FTC+efavirenz (EFV) compared with several non-EFV-containing TDF/FTC regimens. METHODS: We conducted a national cohort study of treatment-naive HIV-infected U.S. veterans who initiated treatment from 2003 to 2015 with TDF/FTC in combination with EFV, elvitegravir/cobicistat, rilpivirine, or ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors (atazanavir, darunavir, or lopinavir). Outcomes of interest were quarterly total, inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy costs using data from the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) electronic medical record and Managerial Cost Accounting System (an activity-based accounting system that allocates VHA expenditures to patient encounters). We controlled for measured confounders using inverse probability of treatment (IPT) weights and assessed differences using standardized mean differences (SMDs). For comparisons where SMDs exceeded 0.1 after IPT weighting, we used the more conservative matching weights in sensitivity analyses. For hypothesis testing, we compared IPT-adjusted differences in quarterly costs between treatment groups using Mann-Whitney U-tests and generalized estimating equation (GEE) regression models. RESULTS: Of 33,048 HIV-positive veterans, 7,222 met eligibility criteria, including 4,172 TDF/FTC + EFV recipients; mean (SD) age of the cohort was 50.0 (10.0) years; 96.7% were male; 60.1% were black; and 30.1% were white. Quarterly periods of exposure to EFV-containing regimens were 22,499 and of exposure to non-EFV-containing regimens were 11,633. After IPT weighting, absolute SMDs were < 0.1 except for a few covariates in the rilpivirine comparison. The per-patient adjusted mean total quarterly costs were $7,145 for EFV versus $8,726 for non-EFV (P < 0.001; Mann-Whitney U-test) and the per-patient adjusted mean difference in total quarterly costs was $1,419 lower for EFV versus all non-EFV combined (P < 0.001; GEE model). Corresponding values for outpatient costs ($2,656 vs. $2,942; P < 0.001; difference, -$254; P = 0.001), inpatient costs ($2,009 vs. $2,614; P < 0.001), radiology costs ($213 vs. $276; P < 0.001), and pharmacy costs ($2,480 vs. $3,170; P < 0.001; difference, -$600; P < 0.001) were all lower for EFV versus all non-EFV combined. Findings based on matching weights were qualitatively similar. Contributions of renal and bone costs to the total costs of treatment were very small, ranging between $52 and $94 per patient per quarter for renal outcomes and between $6 and $114 for bone outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Among 7,222 HIV-treated veterans over an average follow-up of 1.2 years per patient, those patients receiving TDF/FTC + EFV had lower overall health care costs compared with those receiving non-EFV regimens. DISCLOSURES: This study was funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Nelson, Ma, Crook, Knippenberg, Nyman, and LaFleur are employees of the University of Utah, which received a grant from Bristol-Myers Squibb to conduct this study. Nyman also discloses honoraria for consulting from Otsuka and for writing a book chapter from Fresenius. La Fleur reports advisory board and consulting fees from Bristol-Myers Squibb outside of this study. Paul and Esker are employees of, and own stock in, Bristol-Myers Squibb.
30241403	Acetaminophen	Acute Lung Injury	1	0	0	0		Hepatoprotective Effect of Ugonin M, A Helminthostachyszeylanica Constituent, on Acetaminophen-Induced Acute Liver Injury in Mice.	The present study aimed to discover the possible effectiveness of Ugonin M, a unique flavonoid isolated from Helminthostachys zeylanica-a traditional Chinese medicine used as anti-inflammatory medicine-and to elucidate the potential mechanisms of Ugonin M in the acute liver injury induced by acetaminophen (APAP). In this study, Ugonin M significantly ameliorated APAP-induced histopathological changes and the typical liver function biomarkers (i.e., alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and total bilirubin (T-Bil)). It also affected APAP-induced abnormal lipid metabolism including total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) in the serum. In inflammatory pharmacological action, Ugonin M suppressed the pro-inflammatory mediators such as nitric oxide (NO) and the lipid peroxidation indicator malondialdehyde (MDA). In addition, Ugonin M reinforced hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein expression and the production of antioxidant enzymes viz superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and catalase (CAT). Furthermore, inflammation-associated cytokines including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and IL-1beta as well as proteins such as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were decreased by the pretreatment of Ugonin M. Moreover, this study found that pretreatment of Ugonin M apparently decreased nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) activation via inhibition of the degradation of NF-kappaB, inhibitory kappaB-alpha (IkappaB-alpha), extracellular regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun-N-terminal (JNK), and p38 active phosphorylation. In conclusion, Ugonin M significantly showed a protective effect against APAP-induced liver injury by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation. Thus, Ugonin M could be one of the effective components of H. zeylanica that plays a major role in the treatment of inflammatory disorders.
30224351	Sorafenib	Erythema Multiforme	1	0	0	0		Severe hand-foot skin reaction and erythema multiforme-like lesions due to sorafenib.	
30172446	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Cat Diseases	0	0	0	0		Management of Attention-Deficit Disorder and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Drug Intoxication in Dogs and Cats: An Update.	Amphetamines and the nonamphetamine atomoxetine are commonly used in the treatment of attention-deficit disorder/attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in humans. Because these medications are often found in homes, dog and cat exposure to these medications is a common intoxication. Amphetamine intoxication can cause life-threatening central nervous system and cardiovascular stimulation, even when small amounts are ingested.
30172446	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Dog Diseases	0	0	0	0		Management of Attention-Deficit Disorder and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Drug Intoxication in Dogs and Cats: An Update.	Amphetamines and the nonamphetamine atomoxetine are commonly used in the treatment of attention-deficit disorder/attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in humans. Because these medications are often found in homes, dog and cat exposure to these medications is a common intoxication. Amphetamine intoxication can cause life-threatening central nervous system and cardiovascular stimulation, even when small amounts are ingested.
30127255	Polychlorinated Dibenzodioxins	Hypertension	0	1	0	0		Maternal Resveratrol Therapy Protects Male Rat Offspring against Programmed Hypertension Induced by TCDD and Dexamethasone Exposures: Is It Relevant to Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor?	Hypertension can originate from early-life adverse environmental in utero exposure to dexamethasone (DEX) or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Since DEX and TCDD are related to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) signaling pathway, we examined whether resveratrol, an AHR modulator and antioxidant, could prevent programmed hypertension via regulating AHR signaling and oxidative stress. Groups of four-month-old male rat offspring were studied (n = 7(-)8 per group): control, DEX (0.1 mg/kg i.p. from a gestational age of 16 to 22 days), TCDD (200 ng/kg in four once-weekly oral doses), DEX + TCDD, and DEX + TCDD + R (resveratrol 0.05% in drinking water throughout pregnancy and lactation). Maternal TCDD exposure aggravated prenatal DEX-induced hypertension in adult male offspring, which maternal resveratrol therapy prevented. Maternal TCDD exposure aggravated DEX-induced oxidative damage in offspring kidneys, which was prevented by resveratrol therapy. Maternal resveratrol therapy decreased asymmetric and symmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA and SDMA) levels, thereby preventing combined DEX and TCDD exposure-induced programmed hypertension. Increases in renal Ahrr and Cyp1a1 expression induced by DEX + TCDD exposure were restored by resveratrol therapy. The beneficial effects of resveratrol on DEX + TCDD-induced hypertension relate to reduced renal mRNA expression of Ren, Ace, and Agtr1a expression. Thus, the beneficial effects of resveratrol on DEX + TCDD-induced hypertension include reduction of oxidative stress, restoration of nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability, blockade of the renin(-)angiotensin system (RAS), and antagonizing AHR signaling pathway.
29482571	Polychlorinated Dibenzodioxins	Asthma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Prenatal exposure to TCDD and atopic conditions in the Seveso second generation: a prospective cohort study.	BACKGROUND: 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a toxic environmental contaminant that can bioaccumulate in humans, cross the placenta, and cause immunological effects in children, including altering their risk of developing allergies. On July 10, 1976, a chemical explosion in Seveso, Italy, exposed nearby residents to a high amount of TCDD. In 1996, the Seveso Women's Health Study (SWHS) was established to study the effects of TCDD on women's health. Using data from the Seveso Second Generation Health Study, we aim to examine the effect of prenatal exposure to TCDD on the risk of atopic conditions in SWHS children born after the explosion. METHODS: Individual-level TCDD was measured in maternal serum collected soon after the accident. In 2014, we initiated the Seveso Second Generation Health Study to follow-up the children of the SWHS cohort who were born after the explosion or who were exposed in utero to TCDD. We enrolled 677 children, and cases of atopic conditions, including eczema, asthma, and hay fever, were identified by self-report during personal interviews with the mothers and children. Log-binomial and Poisson regressions were used to determine the association between prenatal TCDD and atopic conditions. RESULTS: A 10-fold increase in 1976 maternal serum TCDD (log(10)TCDD) was not significantly associated with asthma (adjusted relative risk (RR) = 0.93; 95% CI: 0.61, 1.40) or hay fever (adjusted RR = 0.99; 95% CI: 0.76, 1.27), but was significantly inversely associated with eczema (adjusted RR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.40, 0.99). Maternal TCDD estimated at pregnancy was not significantly associated with eczema, asthma, or hay fever. There was no strong evidence of effect modification by child sex. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that maternal serum TCDD near the time of explosion is associated with lower risk of eczema, which supports other evidence pointing to the dysregulated immune effects of TCDD.
29402286	Carbon Monoxide	Disease Susceptibility	1	1	0	0	0.0	A review of the experimental evidence on the toxicokinetics of carbon monoxide: the potential role of pathophysiology among susceptible groups.	BACKGROUND: Acute high level carbon monoxide (CO) exposure can cause immediate cardio-respiratory arrest in anyone, but the effects of lower level exposures in susceptible persons are less well known. The percentage of CO-bound hemoglobin in blood (carboxyhemoglobin; COHb) is a marker of exposure and potential health outcomes. Indoor air quality guidelines developed by the World Health Organization and Health Canada, among others, are set so that CO exposure does not lead to COHb levels above 2.0%, a target based on experimental evidence on toxicodynamic relationships between COHb and cardiac performance among persons with cardiovascular disease (CVD). The guidelines do not consider the role of pathophysiological influences on toxicokinetic relationships. Physiological deficits that contribute to increased CO uptake, decreased CO elimination, and increased COHb formation can alter relationships between CO exposures and resulting COHb levels, and consequently, the severity of outcomes. Following three fatalities attributed to CO in a long-term care facility (LTCF), we queried whether pathologies other than CVD could alter CO-COHb relationships. Our primary objective was to inform susceptibility-specific modeling that accounts for physiological deficits that may alter CO-COHb relationships, ultimately to better inform CO management in LTCFs. METHODS: We reviewed experimental studies investigating relationships between CO, COHb, and outcomes related to health or physiological outcomes among healthy persons, persons with CVD, and six additional physiologically susceptible groups considered relevant to LTCF residents: persons with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), anemia, cerebrovascular disease (CBD), heart failure, multiple co-morbidities, and persons of older age (>/= 60 years). RESULTS: We identified 54 studies published since 1946. Six studies investigated toxicokinetics among healthy persons, and the remaining investigated toxicodynamics, mainly among healthy persons and persons with CVD. We identified one study each of CO dynamics in persons with COPD, anemia and persons of older age, and no studies of persons with CBD, heart failure, or multiple co-morbidities. Considerable heterogeneity existed for exposure scenarios and outcomes investigated. CONCLUSIONS: Limited experimental human evidence on the effects of physiological deficits relevant to CO kinetics exists to support indoor air CO guidelines. Both experimentation and modeling are needed to assess how physiological deficits influence the CO-COHb relationship, particularly at sub-acute exposures relevant to indoor environments. Such evidence would better inform indoor air quality guidelines and CO management in indoor settings where susceptible groups are housed.
28347506	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Colitis, Microscopic	1	0	0	0		Antidepressant-Associated Microscopic Colitis: A Case Report and Literature Review.	
28347506	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Antidepressant-Associated Microscopic Colitis: A Case Report and Literature Review.	
28222856	Lamotrigine	Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult	1	0	0	0		Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and Lamotrigine: A Case Report.	
28205213	Midazolam	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Haemodynamic changes to a midazolam-fentanyl-rocuronium protocol for pre-hospital anaesthesia following return of spontaneous circulation after cardiac arrest.	Following the return of spontaneous circulation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, neurological dysfunction, airway or ventilatory compromise can impede transport to early percutaneous coronary intervention, necessitating pre-hospital or emergency department anaesthesia to facilitate this procedure. There are no published reports of the ideal induction agents in these patients. We sought to describe haemodynamic changes associated with induction of anaesthesia using a midazolam (0.1 mg.kg(-1) ), fentanyl (2 mug.kg(-1) ) and rocuronium (1 mg.kg(-1) ) regimen developed using expert opinion, and adherence to the protocol by our pre-hospital teams. We performed a retrospective review of haemodynamic data recorded during induction of anaesthesia in patients following return of spontaneous circulation, over a 30-month period. We analysed the changes in systolic blood pressure and heart rate using a repeated-measures design, as well as the rate of new hypotension or hypertension. Sixty-four patients had four consecutive measurements for analysis (one pre-induction and three post-induction). Systolic blood pressure at all three post-induction measurements was significantly lower than the pre-induction value. Heart rate did not differ between any time-points. New episodes of hypotension (systolic pressure < 90 mmHg) occurred in four (6%) patients at the first measurement post-induction (95%CI 2-15%) and 10 (16%) at the third measurement (95%CI 8-27%). Three patients (5%; 95%CI 1-13%) had a hypertensive response. The median (IQR[range]) dose of midazolam given at induction was 0.04 (0.03-0.05 [0.01 to 0.10]) mg.kg(-1) . Adherence to recommended fentanyl and rocuronium doses was high. Overall, systolic blood pressure was reduced following induction of anaesthesia, and systolic pressures < 90 mmHg occurred more often at measurements made later (up to 9 min) after induction. Changes in heart rate, and new hypertension were uncommon.
28205213	Rocuronium	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Haemodynamic changes to a midazolam-fentanyl-rocuronium protocol for pre-hospital anaesthesia following return of spontaneous circulation after cardiac arrest.	Following the return of spontaneous circulation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, neurological dysfunction, airway or ventilatory compromise can impede transport to early percutaneous coronary intervention, necessitating pre-hospital or emergency department anaesthesia to facilitate this procedure. There are no published reports of the ideal induction agents in these patients. We sought to describe haemodynamic changes associated with induction of anaesthesia using a midazolam (0.1 mg.kg(-1) ), fentanyl (2 mug.kg(-1) ) and rocuronium (1 mg.kg(-1) ) regimen developed using expert opinion, and adherence to the protocol by our pre-hospital teams. We performed a retrospective review of haemodynamic data recorded during induction of anaesthesia in patients following return of spontaneous circulation, over a 30-month period. We analysed the changes in systolic blood pressure and heart rate using a repeated-measures design, as well as the rate of new hypotension or hypertension. Sixty-four patients had four consecutive measurements for analysis (one pre-induction and three post-induction). Systolic blood pressure at all three post-induction measurements was significantly lower than the pre-induction value. Heart rate did not differ between any time-points. New episodes of hypotension (systolic pressure < 90 mmHg) occurred in four (6%) patients at the first measurement post-induction (95%CI 2-15%) and 10 (16%) at the third measurement (95%CI 8-27%). Three patients (5%; 95%CI 1-13%) had a hypertensive response. The median (IQR[range]) dose of midazolam given at induction was 0.04 (0.03-0.05 [0.01 to 0.10]) mg.kg(-1) . Adherence to recommended fentanyl and rocuronium doses was high. Overall, systolic blood pressure was reduced following induction of anaesthesia, and systolic pressures < 90 mmHg occurred more often at measurements made later (up to 9 min) after induction. Changes in heart rate, and new hypertension were uncommon.
28205213	Rocuronium	Hypotension	0	0	0	0		Haemodynamic changes to a midazolam-fentanyl-rocuronium protocol for pre-hospital anaesthesia following return of spontaneous circulation after cardiac arrest.	Following the return of spontaneous circulation after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, neurological dysfunction, airway or ventilatory compromise can impede transport to early percutaneous coronary intervention, necessitating pre-hospital or emergency department anaesthesia to facilitate this procedure. There are no published reports of the ideal induction agents in these patients. We sought to describe haemodynamic changes associated with induction of anaesthesia using a midazolam (0.1 mg.kg(-1) ), fentanyl (2 mug.kg(-1) ) and rocuronium (1 mg.kg(-1) ) regimen developed using expert opinion, and adherence to the protocol by our pre-hospital teams. We performed a retrospective review of haemodynamic data recorded during induction of anaesthesia in patients following return of spontaneous circulation, over a 30-month period. We analysed the changes in systolic blood pressure and heart rate using a repeated-measures design, as well as the rate of new hypotension or hypertension. Sixty-four patients had four consecutive measurements for analysis (one pre-induction and three post-induction). Systolic blood pressure at all three post-induction measurements was significantly lower than the pre-induction value. Heart rate did not differ between any time-points. New episodes of hypotension (systolic pressure < 90 mmHg) occurred in four (6%) patients at the first measurement post-induction (95%CI 2-15%) and 10 (16%) at the third measurement (95%CI 8-27%). Three patients (5%; 95%CI 1-13%) had a hypertensive response. The median (IQR[range]) dose of midazolam given at induction was 0.04 (0.03-0.05 [0.01 to 0.10]) mg.kg(-1) . Adherence to recommended fentanyl and rocuronium doses was high. Overall, systolic blood pressure was reduced following induction of anaesthesia, and systolic pressures < 90 mmHg occurred more often at measurements made later (up to 9 min) after induction. Changes in heart rate, and new hypertension were uncommon.
30142724	Pheniramine	Skin Diseases, Vesiculobullous	1	1	0	1	1.0	Pheniramine maleate: an apparently safe drug causing bullous fixed drug eruption.	Fixed drug eruption is a delayed type hypersensitivity reaction to a drug seen most frequently with antibiotics such as tetracyclines, sulfonamides, and NSAIDs such as naproxen and ibuprofen. Although H1-antihistamines rarely elicit cutaneous adverse effects, there have been a few reports in the literature implicating them in causing fixed drug eruption, particularly the piperazine derivatives (hydroxyzine, cetirizine, levocetirizine), and loratadine. However, cutaneous drug reactions with the alkylamine derivatives like pheniramine maleate are extremely uncommon and fixed drug eruptions have not been reported with any of the alkylamine antihistamines to date. We herein report a case of multifocal bullous fixed drug eruption following ingestion of pheniramine maleate.
30142710	Imiquimod	Cheilitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reviewing the use of imiquimod for molluscum contagiosum.	We discuss imiquimod associated with non-application site mucosal reactions and two of our own clinical cases. In one of our patients, erosive cheilitis developed in a young boy after using topical imiquimod 5% cream for 5 nights weekly on bilateral cheeks, chin, and near vermillion border for molluscum contagiosum. The case is discussed with concerns for imiquimod use in molluscum contagiosum when used near mucosal surfaces.
30079989	Sildenafil Citrate	Hypertension, Pulmonary	1	0	0	0		Clinicians should stop prescribing sildenafil for fetal growth restriction (FGR): comment from the STRIDER Consortium.	
29764439	Chloroquine	Premature Birth	1	1	0	0	0.0	A survey on outcomes of accidental atovaquone-proguanil exposure in pregnancy.	BACKGROUND: Malaria chemoprophylaxis options in pregnancy are limited, and atovaquone-proguanil (AP) is not recommended because of insufficient safety evidence. An anonymous, internet-based survey was disseminated to describe outcomes of pregnancies accidentally exposed to AP. Outcomes of interest included miscarriage (defined as pregnancy loss before 20 weeks), stillbirth (defined as pregnancy loss at or after 20 weeks), preterm birth or live birth prior to 37 weeks, and the presence of congenital anomalies. RESULTS: A total of 487 women responded and reported on 822 pregnancies. Of the 807 pregnancies with information available on exposure and outcomes, 10 (1.2%) had atovaquone-proguanil exposure, all in the first trimester, and all resulted in term births with no birth defects. CONCLUSIONS: Use of an anti-malarial not recommended in pregnancy is likely to occur before the woman knows of her pregnancy. This study adds to the limited evidence of the safety of AP in pregnancy. Further study on use of AP in pregnancy should be a high priority, as an alternative option for the prevention of malaria in pregnancy in non-immune travellers is urgently needed.
29722073	Ibuprofen	Anemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Complications related to chronic supratherapeutic use of codeine containing compound analgesics in a cohort of patients presenting for codeine withdrawal.	INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: This study aimed to compare complications arising due to the supratherapeutic use of paracetamol/codeine or ibuprofen/codeine containing compound analgesics in primary codeine-dependent patients presenting to a drug and alcohol withdrawal service. Data was compared to determine if there was any difference in the number of complications observed between the two groups. DESIGN AND METHODS: A retrospective case review of patients presenting for primary codeine dependence from 2009 to 2014. Sixty patients (42F, 36 +/- 10 years) using ibuprofen/codeine and 46 (26F, 39 +/- 10 years) using paracetamol/codeine containing compound analgesics were compared. A P value of <0.05 was considered significant. RESULTS: Patients consumed similar daily doses of codeine (699 +/- 45 vs. 636 +/- 50 mg) with those consuming ibuprofen/codeine containing compound analgesics ingesting twice as many tablets daily (median 60 vs. 30 tablets; P < 0.0001). Complications related to supratherapeutic use of codeine containing compound analgesics occurred more commonly in patients taking ibuprofen/codeine (52/60; 87%) versus paracetamol/codeine compound analgesics (30/46; 65%) (P < 0.01). Patients taking ibuprofen/codeine containing compound analgesics were more likely to have gastrointestinal bleeding (P < 0.05), anaemia (P < 0.0001) and renal tubular acidosis (P < 0.05). There were two deaths in the group abusing ibuprofen/codeine compound analgesics. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: In patients with primary codeine dependence, there were more complications related to the supratherapeutic use of ibuprofen/codeine versus paracetamol/codeine containing compound analgesics. The patients in both groups ingested similar total daily codeine amounts. Increased daily tablet intake in the ibuprofen/codeine group could possibly have been linked to lower codeine content per tablet.
29609683	Follicle Stimulating Hormone	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Are GnRH and FSH potentially damaging factors in the cardiovascular system?	In the physiological view the human cardiomyocytes express receptors of gonadotropin-releasing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. The local effects of these hormones in the heart are related also to some interstitial cells, such as endothelial cells with follicle-stimulating hormone receptors and immune cells with gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptors. The administration of androgen deprivation therapy in patients with prostate cancer is associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular complications. It is suggested that negative action of this therapy on cardiovascular system is due to the loss of testosterone but also levels of gonadotropin-releasing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone are changed by therapy. In this article we review the literature to date with an emphasis on recent investigation focused on potential role of abnormal gonadotropin-releasing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels induced by gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists on the cardiovascular risk. These facts exacerbate the complexity of specific hormone and cell relationships within heart and vessels. Androgen deprivation therapy reveals the physiological relationships between hormones and specific tissues that are not part of the endocrine system.
29331603	Olanzapine	Metabolic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metabolic risk factors in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder: The effect of comedication with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and antipsychotics.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this observational study was to investigate the relationship between metabolic factors and use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) combined with olanzapine, quetiapine or risperidone. METHODS: Data from the Norwegian Thematically Organized Psychosis study, a cross-sectional study on 1301 patients with schizophrenia (n=868) or bipolar disorder (n=433), were analyzed. As exposure variables in the linear regression model were included the dose or serum concentration of SSRIs (n=280) and of olanzapine (n=398), quetiapine (n=234) or risperidone (n=128). The main outcome variables were levels of total cholesterol, low and high density lipoprotein (LDL and HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides and glucose. RESULTS: One defined daily dose (DDD) per day of an SSRI in addition to olanzapine was associated with an increase in total cholesterol of 0.16 (CI 0.01 to 0.32) mmol/L (P=0.042) and an increase in LDL-cholesterol of 0.17 (CI 0.02 to 0.31) mmol/L (P=0.022). An SSRI serum concentration in the middle of the reference interval in addition to quetiapine was associated with an increase in total cholesterol of 0.39 (CI 0.10 to 0.68) mmol/L (P=0.011) and an increase in LDL-cholesterol of 0.29 (0.02 to 0.56) mmol/L (P=0.037). There were no such effects when combined with risperidone. CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate only minor deteriorations of metabolic variables associated with treatment with an SSRI in addition to olanzapine and quetiapine, and none when combined with risperidone. These results suggest that SSRIs can be used in combination with antipsychotics, and that the possible increase in cardiovascular risk is negligible.
29331603	Quetiapine Fumarate	Metabolic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metabolic risk factors in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder: The effect of comedication with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and antipsychotics.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this observational study was to investigate the relationship between metabolic factors and use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) combined with olanzapine, quetiapine or risperidone. METHODS: Data from the Norwegian Thematically Organized Psychosis study, a cross-sectional study on 1301 patients with schizophrenia (n=868) or bipolar disorder (n=433), were analyzed. As exposure variables in the linear regression model were included the dose or serum concentration of SSRIs (n=280) and of olanzapine (n=398), quetiapine (n=234) or risperidone (n=128). The main outcome variables were levels of total cholesterol, low and high density lipoprotein (LDL and HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides and glucose. RESULTS: One defined daily dose (DDD) per day of an SSRI in addition to olanzapine was associated with an increase in total cholesterol of 0.16 (CI 0.01 to 0.32) mmol/L (P=0.042) and an increase in LDL-cholesterol of 0.17 (CI 0.02 to 0.31) mmol/L (P=0.022). An SSRI serum concentration in the middle of the reference interval in addition to quetiapine was associated with an increase in total cholesterol of 0.39 (CI 0.10 to 0.68) mmol/L (P=0.011) and an increase in LDL-cholesterol of 0.29 (0.02 to 0.56) mmol/L (P=0.037). There were no such effects when combined with risperidone. CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate only minor deteriorations of metabolic variables associated with treatment with an SSRI in addition to olanzapine and quetiapine, and none when combined with risperidone. These results suggest that SSRIs can be used in combination with antipsychotics, and that the possible increase in cardiovascular risk is negligible.
28224329	Sunitinib	Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome after long-term treatment with low-dose sunitinib: a case report.	
30367758	Meglumine Antimoniate	Exanthema	1	1	0	1	0.0	Meglumine antimoniate-induced DRESS: original case with a positive skin test.	We report a case of a 64-year-old woman treated with meglumine antimoniate (Glucantime(R)). On day 20, she developed fever, a pruriginous skin rash and myalgia. The blood tests showed eosinophilia and hepatic cytolysis. The clinico-biological picture improved gradually and the symptoms disappeared 4 weeks after the drug withdrawal. Six weeks later, intradermal tests to Glucantime(R) were performed and were positive at 48 hour-reading. This clinical picture suggests DRESS induced by meglumine antimoniate. To the best of our knowledge, only one case of meglumine antimoniate-induced DRESS has been reported in the literature and we are the first to report a case confirmed by skin tests.
29905899	Aripiprazole	Glucose Metabolism Disorders	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of aripiprazole for the treatment of schizophrenia: an overview of systematic reviews.	"PURPOSE: To conduct an overview to summarize the efficacy and safety of aripiprazole for the treatment of schizophrenia. METHODS: A literature search was performed in PubMed, the Cochrane Library, LILACS, and the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, for articles published until March 31, 2017. We included systematic reviews with meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials assessing the efficacy, and/or the safety of aripiprazole, for patients with schizophrenia. Two authors independently performed the study selection, data extraction, and quality assessment. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and the Risk of Bias in Systematic Review (ROBIS) tool were used to appraise the quality of evidence and the risk of bias in the reviews, respectively. RESULTS: Fourteen studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Aripiprazole showed efficacy similar to that of both typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs (except olanzapine and amisulpride). Aripiprazole caused significantly lower weight gain and alterations in glucose and cholesterol levels, as compared to clozapine, risperidone, and olanzapine. In addition, aripiprazole caused significantly fewer general extrapyramidal side effects, less use of antiparkinsonian drugs, and akathisia, compared with typical antipsychotic drugs and risperidone. The overall quality of evidence in the reviews ranged from ""very low"" to ""moderate,"" principally because of the risk of bias of original trials, inconsistency, and imprecision in the outcomes. According to the ROBIS tool, there are four reviews with ""high"" risk of bias and five with ""unclear"" risk of bias. CONCLUSIONS: Aripiprazole exhibited efficacy similar to that of other antipsychotic drugs and a better safety profile than that of typical (i.e., less some extrapyramidal side effects) and atypical (i.e., less metabolic changes) antipsychotic drugs."
29673748	Cannabis	Skin Diseases	1	0	0	0		[Drugs and skin: What you should know. The example of the cannabis].	
29575544	Sorafenib	Diarrhea	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in treating digestive system tumors.	BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to assess the adverse reactions caused by multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatment of gastrointestinal tumors. METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of drug-related adverse reactions in 115 patients who were treated with sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib for primary hepatocellular carcinoma or gastrointestinal stromal tumors from October 2003 to March 2012 at the Peking University International Hospital. RESULTS: The total incidence of adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors was > 80%. The main adverse reactions of sorafenib were hypertension in 38 patients (33.3%) and diarrhea in 28 patients (24.4%). Sunitinib was associated with higher incidence and greater grade 3-4 toxicity. The common toxicities were skin color changes in 105 patients (90.9%), hand-foot skin reactions in 65 patients (54.6%), and leukopenia (63.6%), hypertension (22.7%), proteinuria (22.7%), liver function impairment (22.7%), and hypomagnesemia (27.3%). While imatinib was well tolerated, it was associated with the highest number of adverse reactions, including skin color change (55.6%) and edema (38.9%). Hypophosphatemia (4.4%) and hoarseness (2.2%) only occurred in the sorafenib treatment group. CONCLUSIONS: The adverse reactions of multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatments are generally mild to moderate, and most patients can tolerate these without the need for further intervention. Some serious adverse reactions may be alleviated by discontinuing the drugs or by administering symptomatic treatment.
29575544	Sorafenib	Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in treating digestive system tumors.	BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to assess the adverse reactions caused by multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatment of gastrointestinal tumors. METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of drug-related adverse reactions in 115 patients who were treated with sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib for primary hepatocellular carcinoma or gastrointestinal stromal tumors from October 2003 to March 2012 at the Peking University International Hospital. RESULTS: The total incidence of adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors was > 80%. The main adverse reactions of sorafenib were hypertension in 38 patients (33.3%) and diarrhea in 28 patients (24.4%). Sunitinib was associated with higher incidence and greater grade 3-4 toxicity. The common toxicities were skin color changes in 105 patients (90.9%), hand-foot skin reactions in 65 patients (54.6%), and leukopenia (63.6%), hypertension (22.7%), proteinuria (22.7%), liver function impairment (22.7%), and hypomagnesemia (27.3%). While imatinib was well tolerated, it was associated with the highest number of adverse reactions, including skin color change (55.6%) and edema (38.9%). Hypophosphatemia (4.4%) and hoarseness (2.2%) only occurred in the sorafenib treatment group. CONCLUSIONS: The adverse reactions of multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatments are generally mild to moderate, and most patients can tolerate these without the need for further intervention. Some serious adverse reactions may be alleviated by discontinuing the drugs or by administering symptomatic treatment.
29575544	Sunitinib	Diarrhea	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in treating digestive system tumors.	BACKGROUND: This study was conducted to assess the adverse reactions caused by multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatment of gastrointestinal tumors. METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of drug-related adverse reactions in 115 patients who were treated with sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib for primary hepatocellular carcinoma or gastrointestinal stromal tumors from October 2003 to March 2012 at the Peking University International Hospital. RESULTS: The total incidence of adverse reactions of sorafenib, sunitinib, and imatinib in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors was > 80%. The main adverse reactions of sorafenib were hypertension in 38 patients (33.3%) and diarrhea in 28 patients (24.4%). Sunitinib was associated with higher incidence and greater grade 3-4 toxicity. The common toxicities were skin color changes in 105 patients (90.9%), hand-foot skin reactions in 65 patients (54.6%), and leukopenia (63.6%), hypertension (22.7%), proteinuria (22.7%), liver function impairment (22.7%), and hypomagnesemia (27.3%). While imatinib was well tolerated, it was associated with the highest number of adverse reactions, including skin color change (55.6%) and edema (38.9%). Hypophosphatemia (4.4%) and hoarseness (2.2%) only occurred in the sorafenib treatment group. CONCLUSIONS: The adverse reactions of multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor treatments are generally mild to moderate, and most patients can tolerate these without the need for further intervention. Some serious adverse reactions may be alleviated by discontinuing the drugs or by administering symptomatic treatment.
29391567	Cinacalcet	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cinacalcet use and the risk of cardiovascular events, fractures and mortality in chronic kidney disease patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism.	With the aim to expand the randomized controlled trial evidence of cinacalcet treatment to the unselected, general chronic kidney disease (CKD) population we analysed a large inception cohort of CKD patients in the region of Stockholm, Sweden 2006-2012 (both non-dialysis, dialysis and transplanted) with evidence of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT). We used marginal structural models to account for both confounding by indication and time-dependent confounding. Over 37 months, 435/3,526 (12%) initiated cinacalcet de novo. Before cinacalcet initiation, parathyroid hormone (PTH) had increased progressively to a median of 636ng/L. After cinacalcet initiation, PTH declined, as did serum calcium and phosphate. In total, 42% of patients experienced a fatal/non-fatal cardiovascular event, 32% died and 9% had a new fracture. The unadjusted cardiovascular odds ratio (OR) associated with cinacalcet treatment was 1.01 (95% confidence interval: 0.83, 1.22). In the fully weighted model, the cardiovascular odds was lower in cinacalcet treated patients (OR 0.67: 0.48, 0.93). The adjusted ORs for all-cause mortality and for fractures were 0.79 (0.56, 1.11) and 1.08 (0.59, 1.98) respectively. Our study suggests cinacalcet treatment improves biochemical abnormalities in the wider CKD population, and adds real-world support that treating SHPT with cinacalcet may have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes.
29391567	Cinacalcet	Fractures, Bone	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cinacalcet use and the risk of cardiovascular events, fractures and mortality in chronic kidney disease patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism.	With the aim to expand the randomized controlled trial evidence of cinacalcet treatment to the unselected, general chronic kidney disease (CKD) population we analysed a large inception cohort of CKD patients in the region of Stockholm, Sweden 2006-2012 (both non-dialysis, dialysis and transplanted) with evidence of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT). We used marginal structural models to account for both confounding by indication and time-dependent confounding. Over 37 months, 435/3,526 (12%) initiated cinacalcet de novo. Before cinacalcet initiation, parathyroid hormone (PTH) had increased progressively to a median of 636ng/L. After cinacalcet initiation, PTH declined, as did serum calcium and phosphate. In total, 42% of patients experienced a fatal/non-fatal cardiovascular event, 32% died and 9% had a new fracture. The unadjusted cardiovascular odds ratio (OR) associated with cinacalcet treatment was 1.01 (95% confidence interval: 0.83, 1.22). In the fully weighted model, the cardiovascular odds was lower in cinacalcet treated patients (OR 0.67: 0.48, 0.93). The adjusted ORs for all-cause mortality and for fractures were 0.79 (0.56, 1.11) and 1.08 (0.59, 1.98) respectively. Our study suggests cinacalcet treatment improves biochemical abnormalities in the wider CKD population, and adds real-world support that treating SHPT with cinacalcet may have beneficial effects on cardiovascular outcomes.
29063980	Topiramate	Choroid Diseases	1	1	1	1	0.0	Bilateral acute angle closure glaucoma and myopic shift by topiramate-induced ciliochoroidal effusion: case report and literature review.	PURPOSE: To report two cases of ciliochoroidal effusion after the usage of topiramate. CASES: Two middle-aged women experienced sudden onset of acute glaucoma and acquired myopia after taking topiramate. Ultrasound biomicroscopy demonstrated bilateral ciliochoroidal effusion and angle closure. The A-scan ultrasonography revealed shallow anterior chamber and thick lens. After the treatment and drug withdrawal, intraocular pressure, refractive status and angle anatomy returned to normal and there was resolution of ciliochoroidal effusion. During the clinical course, the anterior chamber depth (ACD) increased from 2.02 to 3.30 mm (1.28 mm of changes) OD and from 1.94 to 3.36 mm (1.42 mm of changes) OS. The lens thickness (LT) became thinner from 4.53 to 4.31 mm (0.22 mm of changes) OD and from 4.59 to 4.30 mm (0.29 mm of changes) OS in the first case. In the second case, the ACD increased from 2.33 to 3.07 mm (0.74 mm of changes) OD and from 2.30 to 3.05 mm (0.75 mm of changes) OS. The LT became thinner from 4.42 to 4.27 mm (0.15 mm of changes) OD and from 4.38 to 4.26 mm (0.12 mm of changes) OS. The forward displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm contributed more to the shallowness of the anterior chamber than the thickening of the lens itself (only accounting for 20%). CONCLUSION: Topiramate-induced bilateral acute angle closure glaucoma and myopic shift was due to ciliochoroidal effusion which resulted in thicker lens and shallow anterior chamber. The later was mainly due to anterior displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm.
29063980	Topiramate	Myopia	1	1	1	1	0.0	Bilateral acute angle closure glaucoma and myopic shift by topiramate-induced ciliochoroidal effusion: case report and literature review.	PURPOSE: To report two cases of ciliochoroidal effusion after the usage of topiramate. CASES: Two middle-aged women experienced sudden onset of acute glaucoma and acquired myopia after taking topiramate. Ultrasound biomicroscopy demonstrated bilateral ciliochoroidal effusion and angle closure. The A-scan ultrasonography revealed shallow anterior chamber and thick lens. After the treatment and drug withdrawal, intraocular pressure, refractive status and angle anatomy returned to normal and there was resolution of ciliochoroidal effusion. During the clinical course, the anterior chamber depth (ACD) increased from 2.02 to 3.30 mm (1.28 mm of changes) OD and from 1.94 to 3.36 mm (1.42 mm of changes) OS. The lens thickness (LT) became thinner from 4.53 to 4.31 mm (0.22 mm of changes) OD and from 4.59 to 4.30 mm (0.29 mm of changes) OS in the first case. In the second case, the ACD increased from 2.33 to 3.07 mm (0.74 mm of changes) OD and from 2.30 to 3.05 mm (0.75 mm of changes) OS. The LT became thinner from 4.42 to 4.27 mm (0.15 mm of changes) OD and from 4.38 to 4.26 mm (0.12 mm of changes) OS. The forward displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm contributed more to the shallowness of the anterior chamber than the thickening of the lens itself (only accounting for 20%). CONCLUSION: Topiramate-induced bilateral acute angle closure glaucoma and myopic shift was due to ciliochoroidal effusion which resulted in thicker lens and shallow anterior chamber. The later was mainly due to anterior displacement of the lens-iris diaphragm.
30416171	Prednisolone	Thrombocytosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Marked rebound thrombocytosis in response to glucocorticoids in a patient with acquired amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia.	Acquired amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia (AATP) is a rare disease characterized by thrombocytopenia and the disappearance of marrow megakaryocytes. A 43-year-old man was admitted because of thrombocytopenia of 1.0x10(9)/L. Bone marrow aspirate demonstrated normal hematopoiesis lacking megakaryocytes, and AATP was diagnosed. The serum concentration of thrombopoietin (TPO) was high (7.72 fmol/mL). Prednisolone (PSL) at 60 mg/day was started and the platelet count recovered to 1,335x10(9)/L; however, excessive megakaryocytopoiesis and subsequent decline in platelet count were noted 14 days later. At the peak platelet count, the TPO remained at 3.79 fmol/mL and returned to a normal level of 0.40 fmol/mL during the period of normal platelet count after PSL tapering. The marked thrombocytosis in response to prednisolone may have been caused by the high TPO after the resolution of suppressed megakaryopoiesis. Marked rebound thrombocytosis beyond 1,000x10(9)/L after successful PSL treatment for AATP has not been previously reported.
30212002	Prednisolone	Varicella Zoster Virus Infection	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Infections during glucocorticoid use].	Glucocorticoid treatment increases the risk of opportunistic infection. Infections that can arise during glucocorticoid use, and for which preventative measures can be taken, include reactivation of latent tuberculosis and hepatitis B, pneumococcal and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, influenza, herpes zoster and Strongyloides stercoralis hyperinfection syndrome. The risk of such infections depends upon the duration of glucocorticoid use and dosage, as well as comorbidity and comedication. It is important to enquire about vaccinations, travel, exposure and previous infections when taking a case history. Possible infectious complications should be considered in patients who are receiving high-dose glucocorticoids treatment amounting to more than 420 mg PED per 4 weeks. Preventative measures are not usually required in patients who receive a short high-dosed treatment (30 mg PED in 7 days) or prednisolone at a dosage of < 15 mg/day.
28905124	Natalizumab	Arthritis, Psoriatic	1	0	0	0		Arthritic psoriasis during natalizumab treatment: a case report and review of the literature.	
28635316	Microbial Collagenase	Necrosis	1	1	0	1	1.0	Complications Following Collagenase Treatment for Dupuytren Contracture.	BACKGROUND: Collagenase Clostridium histolyticum (CCH) injection and manipulation is a relatively new method for treating Dupuytren contracture that is growing in popularity. Although side effects such as swelling and ecchymosis are common, they are typically mild and self-limited. Major complications are rare but have included flexor tendon rupture and complex regional pain syndrome. METHODS: This study describes a case report of 2 patients seen at our institution. RESULTS: Here, we report 2 patients seen at our institution each with different, yet serious complications after CCH injection and manipulation. One patient had extensive skin loss and chose amputation over reconstruction. The other patient had loss of perfusion and required finger amputation. CONCLUSIONS: Although it is unclear how directly the administration of CCH is connected to the observed complications, physicians should recognize the potential for serious rare complications in any treatment of Dupuytren contracture.
29877267	Nivolumab	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Analysis of Renal Infiltrating Cells in Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Induced by Anti-PD-1 Antibodies: A Case Report and Review of the Literature.	Nivolumab is an anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) antibody that is utilized as an immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) for cancer therapy. We herein present the case of a 57-year-old man who developed acute kidney injury during treatment with nivolumab for lung cancer. A renal biopsy revealed acute tubulointerstitial nephritis. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated marked infiltration of macrophages and T cells together with mild B cell infiltration. Of note, strong CD163(+) M2 macrophage infiltration was observed. The cessation of nivolumab and high-dose prednisolone therapy improved the renal function of the patient. Further, we review the pertinent literature on renal-infiltrating cells in ICI-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis.
29287216	Lacosamide	Ataxia	0	0	0	0		The effectiveness and safety of lacosamide in children with epilepsy in a clinical practice setting.	BACKGROUND: Seizures in up to 30% of children with epilepsy become refractory to treatment, decreasing their quality of life. Studies suggest that lacosamide may be effective in pediatric patients with refractory epilepsy. AIMS: To assess the effectiveness and safety of lacosamide in a population of children with mostly focal refractory epilepsy. METHODS: Retrospective analysis of children aged <18years presenting to a single hospital in Spain. Data from baseline, and 3, 6, and 12months after lacosamide initiation were collected and analyzed. Response to lacosamide was categorized by seizure frequency (seizure freedom or >/=75%, >/=50%, and <50% reduction in seizures). RESULTS: One hundred ninety-one pediatric patients (~55% male) with focal epilepsy treated with lacosamide were included. The mean age at lacosamide initiation was 9.4years, and the mean duration of epilepsy was 5.4years. Seizure-free rates at 3, 6, and 12months were 9.7%, 11.8%, and 16.0%. At 12months, 44.4% of the population had a >/=50% reduction in seizure frequency. When analyzing response according to the number of previous/concomitant AEDs, those patients who received </=2 previous AEDs/fewer concomitant AEDs had significantly greater response rates than those who received greater numbers of previous/concomitant AEDs; however, no predictive factors for response were identified. The most common adverse events were seizure number increased (14.7%), diplopia (5.2%), dizziness (3.7%), ataxia (2.1%), and drowsiness (2.1%). CONCLUSIONS: Lacosamide use in children with refractory focal epilepsy can result in a reduction in seizure rate that improves progressively over time with few adverse effects, making lacosamide a promising option in these patients.
29287214	Levetiracetam	Epilepsy	0	1	0	0		Favorable adverse effect profile of brivaracetam vs levetiracetam in a preclinical model.	Levetiracetam (LEV), and its newer selective analog brivaracetam (BRV), are two seizure medications that share an innovative mechanism of action targeting the Synaptic Vesicle Protein 2A (SV2A), altering neurotransmitter release and decreasing seizure frequency. Behavioral changes are the most significant adverse effects reported by patients taking LEV. We hypothesize that BRV, the more potent SV2A analog, could exert less behavioral side effects, as it requires lower doses than LEV. Using Kainic Acid (KA)-treated and control rats, we measured adverse behavioral effect profiles of LEV, BRV, or Saline, on social and nonsocial behaviors. Our data indicate that both tested drugs had no effect on locomotion, anxiety levels, fear learning, depression-like behavior, and memory retention in rats. However, when considering social interactions, we first confirmed the epilepsy-induced strong increase in aggressive behaviors and specific hippocampal neuronal loss. We furthermore observed, in Sham rats, that LEV-treated animals were 2 times faster to attack at first encounter, had 5 times more aggressive behaviors, and had significantly less social behaviors than control rats. In all circumstances, BRV rats behaved like Saline rats, suggesting that BRV treatment in rats leads to significantly less aggressive behaviors than LEV treatment at the doses used, while there are limited differential effects between these two drugs on other types of behaviors. Since increased aggressiveness has been reported in patients well controlled on LEV, this study indicates based on our findings, that BRV could represent an effective alternative to LEV to limit aggressiveness problems due to this antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy.
28931201	Certolizumab Pegol	Rhinitis	1	0	0	0		TNF-alpha inhibitor as a cause of refractory suppurative laryngitis and rhinosinusitis.	
28931201	Certolizumab Pegol	Suppuration	1	0	0	0		TNF-alpha inhibitor as a cause of refractory suppurative laryngitis and rhinosinusitis.	
29975704	Arsenic	Hearing Loss	1	1	0	0	0.0	Arsenic level in toenails is associated with hearing loss in humans.	Arsenic (As) pollution in drinking water is a worldwide health risk for humans. We previously showed hearing loss in young people who live in areas of As-polluted drinking water and in young mice orally treated with As. In this study, we epidemiologically examined associations between As levels in toenails and hearing in 145 Bangladeshi aged 12-55 years in 2014. Levels of As in toenails, but not those in urine, were shown to be significantly correlated with hearing loss at 4 kHz [odds ratio (OR) = 4.27; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.51, 12.05], 8 kHz (OR = 3.91; 95% CI: 1.47, 10.38) and 12 kHz (OR = 4.15; 95% CI: 1.55, 11.09) by multivariate analysis with adjustments for age, sex, smoking and BMI. Our experimental study further showed a significant association between As levels in inner ears and nails (r = 0.8113, p = 0.0014) in mice orally exposed to As, suggesting that As level in nails is a suitable index to assess As level in inner ears. Taken together, the results of our study suggest that As level in nails could be a convenient and non-invasive biomarker for As-mediated hearing loss in humans.
29953514	Nefopam	Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting	1	0	0	0		Association of nefopam use with postoperative nausea and vomiting in gynecological patients receiving prophylactic ramosetron: A retrospective study.	BACKGROUND: Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is a common adverse effect of opioid-based intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (IV PCA). Nefopam has been considered as a good candidate for inclusion in multimodal analgesia because of its opioid sparing effect, but it can be emetic. This study aims to examine whether the use of nefopam combined with fentanyl in IV PCA was associated with the higher incidence of PONV in patients receiving prophylactic ramosetron after gynecological surgery. METHODS: Data from 296 patients who underwent gynecological surgery were retrospectively reviewed. The patients received IV PCA containing either fentanyl 1500 mug and ketorolac 90 mg (Group K) or fentanyl 1500 mug and nefopam 80 mg (Group N). All patients in both groups received 0.3 mg of ramosetron at the end of surgery. The primary outcome measure was the incidence of PONV during the 3-day postoperative period. RESULTS: No difference was observed in the incidence of PONV during the 3-day postoperative period between the two groups. However, the incidence of nausea on postoperative day 2 was significantly higher in Group N (10.3%) than in Group K (2.8%) (P = 0.016). Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that the use of nefopam was not associated with a higher incidence of PONV (adjusted odds ratio, 1.616; 95% confidence interval, 0.952-2.743, P = 0.076). There were no differences in postoperative pain scores between the two groups. CONCLUSION: The combined use of nefopam with fentanyl in IV PCA was not associated with the higher incidence of PONV compared with the use of ketorolac and fentanyl combination in patients who received ramosetron as PONV prophylactic agent. However, prospective trials are required for a confirmative conclusion.
28817248	Insulin	Hypertriglyceridemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Attenuated suppression of lipolysis explains the increases in triglyceride secretion and concentration associated with basal insulin peglispro relative to insulin glargine treatment in patients with type 1 diabetes.	AIMS: To test the hypothesis that, as well as lowering weight and increasing plasma triglyceride (TG) levels and hepatic fat compared with insulin glargine (GL) in patients with type 1 diabetes, the attenuated peripheral effects of basal insulin peglispro (BIL) may include increased free fatty acid flux to the liver, causing increased very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-TG secretion and lipid oxidation, and decreased TG adipose tissue deposition. METHODS: In this open-label, randomized, 2-period crossover study, 14 patients with type 1 diabetes received once-daily, individualized, stable BIL or GL doses for 3 weeks. Palmitate flux was assessed using [9,10-(3) H]palmitate infusion. VLDL-TG secretion, clearance and oxidation rate were assessed using primed-constant infusion of ex vivo labelled [1-(14) C]VLDL-TG, while VLDL-TG storage rate was assessed using [9,10-(3) H]VLDL-TG bolus injection. RESULTS: The VLDL-TG concentration and secretion rate, and palmitate flux were statistically significantly higher during BIL than during GL treatment (58%, 51% and 35%, respectively). The ratios of least squares (LS) geometric means for VLDL-TG clearance and oxidation were 0.92 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.72, 1.17) and 1.31 (95% CI 0.91, 1.90), respectively. The difference in LS means for VLDL-TG storage rate was -0.36 (95% CI -0.83, 0.12). CONCLUSIONS: BIL-treated patients had higher effective lipolysis, VLDL-TG secretion and VLDL-TG concentration compared with GL-treated patients, explaining the increased plasma TG concentrations reported previously. Data support attenuated effects of BIL on lipolysis, in addition to the recently described hepato-preferential glucodynamic effects.
28817248	Insulin Glargine	Hypertriglyceridemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Attenuated suppression of lipolysis explains the increases in triglyceride secretion and concentration associated with basal insulin peglispro relative to insulin glargine treatment in patients with type 1 diabetes.	AIMS: To test the hypothesis that, as well as lowering weight and increasing plasma triglyceride (TG) levels and hepatic fat compared with insulin glargine (GL) in patients with type 1 diabetes, the attenuated peripheral effects of basal insulin peglispro (BIL) may include increased free fatty acid flux to the liver, causing increased very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-TG secretion and lipid oxidation, and decreased TG adipose tissue deposition. METHODS: In this open-label, randomized, 2-period crossover study, 14 patients with type 1 diabetes received once-daily, individualized, stable BIL or GL doses for 3 weeks. Palmitate flux was assessed using [9,10-(3) H]palmitate infusion. VLDL-TG secretion, clearance and oxidation rate were assessed using primed-constant infusion of ex vivo labelled [1-(14) C]VLDL-TG, while VLDL-TG storage rate was assessed using [9,10-(3) H]VLDL-TG bolus injection. RESULTS: The VLDL-TG concentration and secretion rate, and palmitate flux were statistically significantly higher during BIL than during GL treatment (58%, 51% and 35%, respectively). The ratios of least squares (LS) geometric means for VLDL-TG clearance and oxidation were 0.92 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.72, 1.17) and 1.31 (95% CI 0.91, 1.90), respectively. The difference in LS means for VLDL-TG storage rate was -0.36 (95% CI -0.83, 0.12). CONCLUSIONS: BIL-treated patients had higher effective lipolysis, VLDL-TG secretion and VLDL-TG concentration compared with GL-treated patients, explaining the increased plasma TG concentrations reported previously. Data support attenuated effects of BIL on lipolysis, in addition to the recently described hepato-preferential glucodynamic effects.
28817231	Insulin	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Effect of once-weekly dulaglutide on glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and fasting blood glucose in patient subpopulations by gender, duration of diabetes and baseline HbA1c.	AIMS: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of dulaglutide 1.5 and 0.75 mg in patients with type 2 diabetes by subgroups of gender, duration of diabetes and baseline glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) in the dulaglutide clinical development programme (AWARD-1 to -6 and -8 clinical trials). METHODS: Change in HbA1c was analysed by gender, duration of diabetes (<5, >/=5 years and <10, >/=10 years), and baseline HbA1c (<8.5%, >/=8.5%) in pooled and individual studies. Changes from baseline in weight, hypoglycaemia and gastrointestinal adverse events were evaluated for individual trials. RESULTS: In the pooled analysis of patients treated with dulaglutide 1.5 mg at 6 months, the reductions in HbA1c from baseline were similar across gender (men: least squares [LS] mean -1.26% [95% confidence interval CI -1.36, -1.16]; women: LS mean -1.33% [95% CI -1.43, -1.24]) and among duration of diabetes subgroups (<5 years: LS mean -1.32% [95% CI -1.43, -1.22]; >/=5 and <10 years: LS mean -1.33% [95% CI -1.43, -1.22]; >/=10 years: -1.24% [95% CI -1.35, -1.14]). Patients with baseline HbA1c >/=8.5% had greater HbA1c reductions than patients with baseline HbA1c <8.5%, (>/=8.5%: LS mean -1.86% [95% CI -1.97, -1.75]; <8.5%: LS mean -1.02% [95% CI -1.12, -0.93]). Reductions in fasting blood glucose (FBG) were consistent with HbA1c changes. Similar results were observed with dulaglutide 0.75 mg. In general, body weight changes were similar among duration of diabetes and in baseline HbA1c subgroups, respectively; women had a numerically greater weight loss or less weight gain than men with both dulaglutide doses. There was no clinically meaningful difference in hypoglycaemia trends by gender or duration of diabetes. Hypoglycaemia incidence and rate were generally lower in patients with baseline HbA1c >/=8.5% than in those with <8.5%, except for the AWARD-4 study (combination with mealtime insulin). CONCLUSIONS: Across the AWARD studies, dulaglutide demonstrated significant improvements in glycaemic control irrespective of gender, duration of diabetes, or baseline HbA1c, with greater HbA1c and FBG reductions in patients with a higher baseline HbA1c. Dulaglutide was well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to other glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists.
28660548	Pemetrexed	Cardiomyopathies	1	1	0	0	1.0	Chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy caused by Pemetrexed.	Chemotherapy-related cardiac toxicity is a rare but serious adverse event in patients with cancer. Thus far, no case of serious cardiac toxicity of pemetrexed has been reported. We describe the case of a patient with advanced lung cancer and cardiomyopathy due to pemetrexed. A 59-year-old woman visited our hospital, and we found abnormal findings on a chest radiograph. She was diagnosed as having stage IV lung adenocarcinoma. Chemotherapy with cisplatin and pemetrexed every 3 weeks was initiated. After four cycles of chemotherapy, maintenance chemotherapy with pemetrexed was administered every 3 weeks. During the seventeenth cycle of pemetrexed, she had shortness of breath in her daily life. A chest radiograph showed an enlarged cardiothoracic ratio (66%), and the transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated expansion of the left ventricle (diastolic diameter, 67 mm), severe global hypokinesis, and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (28%). The coronary angiogram showed no coronary constriction. There was no delayed accumulation on the contrast-enhanced cardiac magnetic resonance imaging scan. After right heart catheterization, pathological results of a myocardial biopsy from the ventricular septum indicated no cardiac muscle hypertrophy, cardiac fibrosis, inflammatory cell infiltration, or myocyte disarray. Eventually, she was diagnosed as having pemetrexed-induced cardiomyopathy. Pemetrexed was discontinued, and furosemide, enalapril, and carvedilol were started. Then her symptoms and cardiac function improved. Early detection and discontinuation of causative agents are the most important treatment strategies in similar patients. Diuretics, angiotensin-conversion enzyme inhibitors, and beta-blockers may be effective for treating heart failure.
30083888	Acyclovir	Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and predictors of intravenous acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity.	To assess the incidence, predictive factors, and prognosis of acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity. We conducted a historical prospective cohort study of patients treated with intravenous acyclovir in North Denmark Region from 2009 to 2016. Information on baseline demographics, co-morbidities, plasma creatinine, and treatment was obtained from the medical records. The primary outcome was an increase of >/= 40 mumol/L in plasma creatinine level from baseline. We included 276 patients treated with intravenous acyclovir of which 29 (10.5%) met the primary outcome. In 14 cases, the treating physician considered acyclovir the main reason for nephrotoxicity, whereas a potential competing cause of renal impairment was present among the 15 remaining patients. Hypertension was the only predictive factor associated with nephrotoxicity (risk ratio (RR), 2.77; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.41-5.46), while having no co-morbidities was protective (RR, 0.32; CI, 0.16-0.63). In all cases, the nephrotoxicity was reversible following rehydration and dose reduction or discontinuation of the drug. However, the normalized plasma creatinine upon treatment was significantly higher between cases with acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity than cases with a potential competing cause (median [interquartile range (IQR)], 93.5 mumol/L [85-108] vs 75 mumol/L [66.5-88]; p = 0.019). Acyclovir-induced, reversible nephrotoxicity was observed in 5.1-10.5% of patients. It is difficult to predict who will develop acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity; it may occur late in treatment and hypertension was the only independent predictive factor, while the absence of co-morbidities was protective. Ensuring hydration, frequent evaluations of renal function, and corresponding dose adjustment of intravenous acyclovir treatment seem prudent.
29951983	Arginine	Esophageal Diseases	0	0	0	1		The effect of platelet-rich plasma on motility changes in experimental caustic esophageal burn.	BACKGROUND: Besides stricture formation, diminished esophageal motility after caustic esophageal burns also plays a role in the deterioration of the clinical course. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effect of caustic burn on the esophageal contractions and the effect of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) on these changes. METHODS: Twenty-one Wistar albino rats were divided into three groups [Sham operation (n = 8), caustic esophageal burn with NaOH (n = 6), PRP treatment after caustic burn (n = 7)]. After 3 weeks, esophagectomy was performed and contractions and EFS responses were evaluated in the organ bath. RESULTS: KCl- and acetylcholine-induced responses were reduced in the Burn group, but increased in Sham and PRP groups (p < 0.05). EFS responses were higher in Burn group compared to the other groups. Response with L-arginine was increased in Burn group, but decreased in PRP group. There was more decrease in the contraction in Sham and PRP groups compared to the Burn group after SNP (sodium nitroprusside) incubation (p < 0.05). L-NAME (Nomega-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester) did not change the EFS responses in the Burn group, but EFS responses were decreased significantly in Sham and PRP groups (p < 0.05). EFS responses were decreased in all groups, but more in the Sham and PRP groups after Y-27632 (Rho-kinase inhibitor) incubation (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, we demonstrated that both cholinergic and non-adrenergic non-cholinergic mechanisms are responsible for the altered motility in corrosive esophageal injury. Our results suggest that PRP treatment may be helpful in regulating the esophageal motility and decreasing altered contractions in corrosive burns. This effect may also contribute to the reduction of stricture formation, especially by reducing inappropriate contractions of the esophageal wall during the post-burn healing phase.
29537061	Sildenafil Citrate	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		[Infarction of the spinal cord and of cervical vertebral bodies following consumption of sildenafil].	
29537061	Sildenafil Citrate	Infarction	1	0	0	0		[Infarction of the spinal cord and of cervical vertebral bodies following consumption of sildenafil].	
29537061	Sildenafil Citrate	Paresis	1	0	0	0		[Infarction of the spinal cord and of cervical vertebral bodies following consumption of sildenafil].	
29537061	Sildenafil Citrate	Spinal Cord Ischemia	1	0	0	0		[Infarction of the spinal cord and of cervical vertebral bodies following consumption of sildenafil].	
29537058	Lacosamide	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Lacosamide associated with high-degree block in a patient with trigeminal neuralgia].	INTRODUCTION: Lacosamide is an antiepileptic drug whose exact mechanism of action remains unknown. It acts by increasing the slow inactivation of the voltage-dependent sodium channels of the cell membranes. It is indicated in the treatment of focal seizures with or without secondary generalisation and is occasionally used as adjunct treatment in neuropathic pain. Although the most frequent side effects are mild (dizziness, diplopia, blurred vision, headache, tremor, etc.), others such as supraventricular tachyarrhythmias, changes in repolarisation, atrioventricular blocks and even cardiac arrest or sudden death have been reported. CASE REPORT: A 74-year-old male, diagnosed with classic trigeminal neuralgia treated with 200 mg/12 h of carbamazepine, who visited due to a worsening of the pain in the trigeminal V1-V2 region. On the sixth day after admission, after adjusting the carbamazepine treatment to a descending regime, 400 mg/24 h of eslicarbazepine and 100 mg/12 h of intravenous lacosamide, he presented a complete atrioventricular block with extreme bradycardia that required the placement of a pacemaker. CONCLUSIONS: Voltage-dependent sodium channel blockade mainly affects non-sinusal cardiac tissue. An alteration in the atrioventricular or infrahisian node is more consistent with its mechanism of action. Other cases of atrioventricular block in this kind of polytherapy have been reported. Precaution is advised in the concomitant use of antiepileptic drugs, above all among those that prolong the PR interval, and they should be contraindicated in patients with a history of atrioventricular block, ischaemic heart disease or heart failure. Before starting, a baseline electrocardiogram and regular electrocardiographic monitoring are advised during the first few weeks.
29480512	Methylphenidate	Bone Diseases, Developmental	0	0	0	0		[Side effects of methylphenidate in children and the young].	INTRODUCTION: The use of psychostimulants has been present in common medical practice since the 20th century and has undergone an exponential growth in terms of the number of prescriptions. AIM: To review the current state of knowledge about the side effects of psychostimulants in the child and teen populations. DEVELOPMENT: A review was performed by searching in different databases and included clinical analyses, observational prospective studies and systematic reviews. A minimum increase in blood pressure and heart rate are observed, but some studies highlight an underestimation of the long-term risk. As regards appetite and growth, almost all the current literature points to a slowing of the rate of growth, which is regained on interrupting treatment. One important factor, as is the parallel evolution of bone age, has not been evaluated in most of the studies carried out to date. No significant worsening of sleep was noted in patients treated with psychostimulants with respect to those who are not being treated. With regard to the central nervous system, there does not seem to be any evidence of an increased risk of the appearance or exacerbation of tics following introduction of the treatment. Affect and emotion are areas that have been barely explored. CONCLUSIONS: It is important to have more evidence on the safety of these drugs. It is therefore essential to have access to studies that cover a period of time consistent with the duration of these treatments.
28678590	Trastuzumab	Necrosis	1	0	0	0		Skin Necrosis After Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine Extravasation.	
30251160	Lorazepam	Behavior, Addictive	1	0	0	0		A risk for athletes: when the desire to sleep becomes a nightmare. A brief case report on benzodiazepine addiction.	
29952413	Rosiglitazone	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	0	0	0		Long-term risk of rosiglitazone on cardiovascular events - a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Rosiglitazone has been proposed as a treatment strategy for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and it could provide robust glucose-lowering capability with risk of cardiovascular events. We thus performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of controlled trials to assess the effect of this treatment on glycaemic control and cardiovascular events in patients with T2DM. We systematically search PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials comparing rosiglitazone to other anti-diabetic treatments. These studies included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cohort studies, and case-control studies that had treatment with at least six months of follow-up in patients with T2DM. We aimed to evaluate the long-term effect on cardiovascular risk of rosiglitazone compared with a basal insulin drug. The main outcomes included myocardial infarction, heart failure, stroke, cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality. We included 11RCTs and four observational studies involving 20,079 individuals with T2DM allocated to rosiglitazone and a similar number to comparison groups of which only five compared rosiglitazone with placebo and collected data on cardiovascular outcomes. Among patients with T2DM, rosiglitazone is associated with a significantly increased risk of heart failure, with little increased risk of myocardial infarction, without a significantly increased risk of stroke, cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality compared with placebo or active controls. Alternative methods to reduce the uncertainty in long-term pragmatic evaluations, inclusion of rosiglitazone in factorial trials, publication of cardiovascular outcome data from adverse event reporting in trials of rosiglitazone and a cardiovascular endpoint trial of rosiglitazone among people without diabetes.
29683873	Benzoates	Liver Failure, Acute	1	1	0	0	0.0	Eltrombopag-Induced Acute Liver Failure in a Pediatric Patient: A Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacogenetic Analysis.	Eltrombopag is an oral thrombopoietin receptor agonist approved for the treatment of patients with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), who are more than 1 year old, and show poor response to first-line therapy. ITP is a hematological disorder characterized by isolated thrombocytopenia in the absence of secondary causes or disorders. Eltrombopag is generally well tolerated in the pediatric population; therefore, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is not usually performed in clinical practice.We presented the case study of a 3-year-old girl with chronic ITP. She arrived in the pediatric intensive care unit with acute liver failure due to eltrombopag toxicity despite taking the standard drug dosage. A very high eltrombopag plasma concentration, indicating drug toxicity, was found through TDM. The patient also carried the allelic variations that are involved in drug metabolism [CYP2C8 and UDP glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 (UGT1A1)] and drug cellular transportation [ABCG2 (ATP-binding cassette G2)]. This observation highlights the importance of using TDM and pharmacogenetic approaches to manage patients' unusual complications associated with standard pharmacological treatment regimens.
29677016	Polidocanol	Skin Diseases	1	0	0	0		Skin Necrosis on the Face and Scalp Due To Sclerotherapy.	
29233604	Oxaliplatin	Paresthesia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Axonal excitability changes and acute symptoms of oxaliplatin treatment: In vivo evidence for slowed sodium channel inactivation.	OBJECTIVE: Neurotoxicity is the most frequent dose-limiting side effect of the anti-cancer agent oxaliplatin, but the mechanisms are not well understood. This study used nerve excitability testing to investigate the pathophysiology of the acute neurotoxicity. METHODS: Questionnaires, quantitative sensory tests, nerve conduction studies and nerve excitability testing were undertaken in 12 patients with high-risk colorectal cancer treated with adjuvant oxaliplatin and in 16 sex- and age-matched healthy controls. Examinations were performed twice for patients: once within 3 days after oxaliplatin treatment (post-infusion examination) and once shortly before the following treatment (recovery examination). RESULTS: The most frequent post-infusion symptoms were tingling paresthesias and cold allodynia. The most prominent nerve excitability change was decreased superexcitability of motor axons which correlated with the average intensity of abnormal sensations (Spearman Rho = 0.80, p < .01). The motor nerve excitability changes were well modeled by a slowing of sodium channel inactivation, and were proportional to dose/m(2) with a half-life of about 10d. CONCLUSIONS: Oxaliplatin induces reversible slowing of sodium channel inactivation in motor axons, and these changes are closely related to the reversible cold allodynia. However, further studies are required due to small sample size in this study. SIGNIFICANCE: Nerve excitability data provide an index of sodium channel dysfunction: an objective biomarker of acute oxaliplatin neurotoxicity.
28782406	Sunitinib	Neutropenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe sunitinib-induced myelosuppression in a patient with a CYP 3A4 polymorphism.	Sunitinib, an oral vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, is a first-line option for metastatic renal cell carcinoma and widely used in clinical practice. Despite the proven benefit of sunitnib in metastatic renal cell carcinoma, patients may suffer from a variety of adverse events including hypertension, fatigue, hypothyroidism, hand-foot skin reactions, rash, depigmentation, and myelosuppression. Myelosuppression is usually mild, transient and resolves during the two weeks at the end of each cycle where no drug is taken. We present a case of severe and early grade 3 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia occurring two weeks into a six-week cycle. Because of the extreme nature of the toxicity, CYP 3A4 polymorphisms were explored. The patient was found to be heterozygous for CYP 3A4*22, at least partially explaining the early-onset and severity of myelosuppression. This pharmacogenetics information resulted in a rechallenge of dose-reduced sunitinib, which was well tolerated by the patient. The current state of pharmacogenomics concerning sunitinb is also presented, and the need for greater research in this area is highlighted.
28714380	Loperamide	Heart Arrest	0	0	0	0		Loperamide and cardiac events: Is high-dose use still safe for chemotherapy-induced diarrhea?	High-dose loperamide is often used for the acute management of chemotherapy-induced diarrhea, with a maximum daily dosing of up to 24 mg. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration has issued a warning that loperamide can cause rare serious cardiac events, including QT prolongation, torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest and death. Most events were reported in patients taking very high doses for an extended period of time. Daily intake ranged from 64 mg to 1600 mg, often continuously for weeks or months. In addition, the reported serum levels of loperamide ranged from 22 ng/mL to 210 ng/mL, which is likely significantly higher than that expected from patients taking the recommended doses for chemotherapy-induced diarrhea. Overall, the incidence of serious cardiac events associated with loperamide remains low. In balance, the risk of uncontrolled complications from chemotherapy-induced diarrhea is likely greater than the rare cardiac risk associated with the chronic misuse of much higher doses of loperamide.
28714380	Loperamide	Heart Diseases	0	0	0	0		Loperamide and cardiac events: Is high-dose use still safe for chemotherapy-induced diarrhea?	High-dose loperamide is often used for the acute management of chemotherapy-induced diarrhea, with a maximum daily dosing of up to 24 mg. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration has issued a warning that loperamide can cause rare serious cardiac events, including QT prolongation, torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest and death. Most events were reported in patients taking very high doses for an extended period of time. Daily intake ranged from 64 mg to 1600 mg, often continuously for weeks or months. In addition, the reported serum levels of loperamide ranged from 22 ng/mL to 210 ng/mL, which is likely significantly higher than that expected from patients taking the recommended doses for chemotherapy-induced diarrhea. Overall, the incidence of serious cardiac events associated with loperamide remains low. In balance, the risk of uncontrolled complications from chemotherapy-induced diarrhea is likely greater than the rare cardiac risk associated with the chronic misuse of much higher doses of loperamide.
30287740	Letrozole	Polycystic Ovary Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Welsh Onion Root (Allium fistulosum) Restores Ovarian Functions from Letrozole Induced-Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.	Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is an endocrine, metabolic, and systemic disease. It is mainly characterized by hyperandrogenism, oligomenorrhea, and high levels of luteinizing hormone (LH). There is no obvious therapy for PCOS, so patients have received symptomatic therapy. Welsh onion (Allium fistulosum) is well-known in Asian countries for its usage in food ingredients and traditional medicines. It is also studied for its many effects. These include activation of immune responses, antihypertensive effects, and antioxidant effects. Using letrozole-induced PCOS rats, we focused on herbal therapy using extract of Allium fistulosum (AF; A. fistulosum) roots to improve ovarian functions. As a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor, letrozole blocks conversion of testosterone to estrogen and subsequently induces PCOS phenomenon. We divided six-week-old female rats into four groups, including control, letrozole, letrozole + AF extract, and temporary letrozole groups. In our study, treatment with AF extract shows a low plasma LH/FSH ratio, and reveals high estrogen levels, ovarian morphology, folliculogenesis-related genes, and aromatase expression under PCOS mimic conditions. We concluded that AF extract administration influenced aromatase production, enhanced the estrogen steroid synthesis, and consequently restored the estrogenic feedback mechanism on the pituitary-ovary system.
30186550	Doxorubicin	Behavioral Symptoms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Neuroprotective Effects of dl-3-n-Butylphthalide against Doxorubicin-Induced Neuroinflammation, Oxidative Stress, Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress, and Behavioral Changes.	Doxorubicin (DOX) is a broad-spectrum antitumor drug while its use is limited due to its neurobiological side effects associated with depression. We investigated the neuroprotective efficacy of dl-3-n-butylphthalide (dl-NBP) against DOX-induced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in rats. dl-NBP was given (30 mg/kg) daily by gavage over three weeks starting seven days before DOX administration. Elevated plus maze (EPM) test, forced swimming test (FST), and sucrose preference test (SPT) were performed to assess anxiety- and depression-like behaviors. Our study showed that the supplementation of dl-NBP significantly mitigated the behavioral changes induced by DOX. To further explore the mechanism of neuroprotection induced by dl-NBP, several biomarkers including oxidative stress markers, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers, and neuroinflammatory cytokines in the hippocampus were quantified. The results showed that dl-NBP treatment alleviated DOX-induced neural apoptosis. Meanwhile, DOX-induced oxidative stress and ER stress in the hippocampus were significantly ameliorated in dl-NBP pretreatment group. Our study found that dl-NBP alleviated the upregulation of malondialdehyde (MDA), nitric oxide (NO), CHOP, glucose-regulated protein 78 kD (GRP-78), and caspase-12 and increased the levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) and activities of catalase (CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in the hippocampus of rats exposed to DOX. Additionally, the gene expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and protein levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were significantly increased in DOX-treated group, whereas DOX-induced neuroinflammation was significantly attenuated in dl-NBP supplementation group. In conclusion, dl-NBP could alleviate DOX-induced anxiety- and depression-like behaviors via attenuating oxidative stress, ER stress, inflammatory reaction, and neural apoptosis, providing a basis as a therapeutic potential against DOX-induced neurotoxicity.
30111350	Tobramycin	Eosinophilia	1	1	0	1	0.0	Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome in two young children: the importance of an early diagnosis.	BACKGROUND: Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome is a serious life-treating condition characterized by skin eruption, fever, haematologic abnormalities, and multi-organ involvement that can be fatal if unrecognized, especially in patients with liver failure. Diagnosis may be difficult because it is rarely described in children and can mimic many different conditions. CASE PRESENTATION: We report two cases of DRESS syndrome due to prolonged antibiotic treatment in young children in whom recovery occurred following different therapeutic approaches. A previously healthy 5-year-old boy had been receiving intravenous vancomycin for right wrist and left elbow osteomyelitis and developed DRESS syndrome on day 30. The patient achieved a complete resolution of all symptoms with pulse methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisone. A 4-year-old girl with cystic fibrosis, pancreatic insufficiency, chronic pulmonary colonization by Gram-positive bacteria admitted for pulmonary exacerbation was treated with intravenous piperacillin-tazobactam and tobramycin. After 14 days of treatment, she developed DRESS syndrome: antibiotic treatment was therefore stopped, and without any further therapy, a progressive resolution of the patient's clinical features was observed within 7 days, while the normalization of laboratory abnormalities was achieved at 14 days. CONCLUSIONS: Our cases highlight that paediatricians should be aware of the clinical presentations of and therapeutic approaches for DRESS syndrome, especially in children receiving long-term antibiotic treatment. The removal of the offending drug is crucial and may be the only life-saving measure. In more aggressive cases, corticosteroid or other immunosuppressive drugs should be considered to achieve the best outcome.
30032885	Propofol	Vision Disorders	0	0	0	0		Determination of the median effective dose of propofol in combination with different doses of ketamine during gastro-duodenoscopy in children: a randomised controlled trial.	BACKGROUND: Propofol is used to induce deep sedation or general anaesthesia for procedures in children. Adjuvants, such as ketamine, are routinely added to reduce the dose of propofol required and propofol-related adverse events. We conducted a randomised controlled trial to determine the effective bolus dose of propofol in combination with ketamine that induces adequate depth of anaesthesia in 50% of children (ED(50)) undergoing gastro-duodenoscopy. METHODS: Children were randomised to one of four doses of ketamine: 0 (control), 0.25, 0.5, and 1 mg kg(-1), followed by a dose of propofol according to Dixon's up-and-down methodology. Excessive movement, coughing, gagging, or airway obstruction that prevented endoscope insertion was considered a failure. RESULTS: The ED(50) of propofol (median, 95% CI) was greater in the ketamine 0, 0.25, and 0.5 mg kg(-1) groups compared with the ketamine 1 mg kg(-1) group (6.1, 4.1-8.1; 4.5, 2.9-6; 4.7, 3.1-6.2 mg kg(-1)vs 1.1, 0.5-1.8 mg kg(-1), respectively, P<0.008). Total dose of propofol administered during the procedure was reduced with ketamine 1 mg kg(-1). The mean arterial pressure was lower in the ketamine 0 mg kg(-1) group compared with the 1 mg kg(-1) group during and immediately after the procedure. The ketamine 1 mg kg(-1) group experienced a higher incidence of nausea and visual disturbances. CONCLUSIONS: Ketamine at 0.5-1 mg kg(-1) reduces the dose of propofol required to provide general anaesthesia for gastro-duodenoscopy in children and may reduce the incidence of propofol-related changes in haemodynamics. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT 02295553.
30032875	Rocuronium	Muscle Weakness	0	0	0	0		Management of rocuronium neuromuscular block using a protocol for qualitative monitoring and reversal with neostigmine.	BACKGROUND: Neuromuscular block using subjective monitoring and neostigmine reversal is commonly associated with postoperative residual neuromuscular block. We tested whether a protocol for the management of neuromuscular block that specified appropriate dosing and optimal neostigmine reversal was associated with a reduction in postoperative residual neuromuscular block. METHODS: Rocuronium administration was guided by surgical requirements and based on the ideal body weight, with dose reductions for female sex and age >55 yr. Neostigmine was administered in adjusted doses after a train-of-four count of four was confirmed at the thumb. The protocol ensured a minimum of 10 min between neostigmine administration and tracheal extubation. We measured the postoperative residual neuromuscular block in patients undergoing abdominal surgery before and after introduction of the protocol. Pre-specified primary and secondary endpoints were incidence of postoperative residual neuromuscular block and severe postoperative residual neuromuscular block at the time of tracheal extubation, defined as normalised train-of-four ratios <0.9 and <0.7, respectively. RESULTS: The incidence of postoperative residual neuromuscular block at tracheal extubation was 14/40 (35%) for patients managed according to the protocol compared with 22/38 (58%) for patients in the control group, odds ratio of 0.39, and 95% confidence interval of 0.14-1.07; P=0.068. The incidence of severe postoperative residual neuromuscular block at tracheal extubation showed a highly significant difference, odds ratio=0.06, and confidence interval of 0.00-0.43; P=0.001. CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of severe postoperative residual neuromuscular block was significantly reduced after the protocol was introduced. Given the limitations inherent in this before-and-after study, further research is needed to confirm these results. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02660398.
29909392	Hydrochlorothiazide	Pruritus	1	0	0	0		Thiazide diuretics-associated skin rash.	
29877289	Magnesium Oxide	Bezoars	0	1	0	0		A Magnesium Oxide Bezoar.	A 75-year-old Japanese woman presented with nausea and appetite loss. Computed tomography showed a radiopaque substance in the stomach. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed bezoars in the stomach, which were endoscopically retrieved. The bezoars were mainly composed of magnesium and oxide. Although bezoar formation associated with magnesium oxide consumption is infrequently encountered, the present case indicates that pharmacobezoar should be considered among the differential diagnoses in patients who demonstrate a radiopaque mass in the digestive tract and have a history of magnesium oxide use.
29532621	Tacrolimus	Skin Ulcer	0	0	0	0		Comparison between the efficacy of microneedling combined with 5-fluorouracil vs microneedling with tacrolimus in the treatment of vitiligo.	BACKGROUND: Several treatment modalities had been used for the treatment of vitiligo, but the optimal treatment has not yet been identified. OBJECTIVES: To study the efficacy of microneedling with 5-flurouracil vs its efficacy with tacrolimus in the treatment of vitiligo. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five patients with vitiligo were subjected to microneedling of 2 patches of vitiligo with dermapen, then application of 5-fluorouracil to 1 patch and tacrolimus on the other patch. This procedure was repeated every 2 weeks for every patient for maximum 6 months (12 sessions). The patients were followed up for 3 months after the last session. RESULTS: The overall repigmentation was significantly higher in 5-fluorouracil-treated patches compared with tacrolimus. Excellent improvement occurred in 48% of 5- flurouracil-treated patches while only in 16% of tacrolimus-treated patches. In the acral parts, 40% of the patches treated with 5-fluorouracil achieved excellent improvement (repigmentation >75%), while no patch in the acral parts achieved excellent improvement with tacrolimus. However, there was significant difference between the 2 drugs,regarding inflammation, ulceration, and hyperpigmentation which occurred with 5-fluorouracil. CONCLUSION: Microneedling combined with 5-fluorouracil or tacrolimus is safe and effective treatment of vitiligo. However, 5-fluorouracil achieved a greater percentage of repigmentation than tacrolimus particularly in the acral parts.
29384700	Nicotine	Fibrosis	0	1	0	0		Chronic inhalation of e-cigarette vapor containing nicotine disrupts airway barrier function and induces systemic inflammation and multiorgan fibrosis in mice.	Electronic (e)-cigarettes theoretically may be safer than conventional tobacco. However, our prior studies demonstrated direct adverse effects of e-cigarette vapor (EV) on airway cells, including decreased viability and function. We hypothesize that repetitive, chronic inhalation of EV will diminish airway barrier function, leading to inflammatory protein release into circulation, creating a systemic inflammatory state, ultimately leading to distant organ injury and dysfunction. C57BL/6 and CD-1 mice underwent nose only EV exposure daily for 3-6 mo, followed by cardiorenal physiological testing. Primary human bronchial epithelial cells were grown at an air-liquid interface and exposed to EV for 15 min daily for 3-5 days before functional testing. Daily inhalation of EV increased circulating proinflammatory and profibrotic proteins in both C57BL/6 and CD-1 mice: the greatest increases observed were in angiopoietin-1 (31-fold) and EGF (25-fold). Proinflammatory responses were recapitulated by daily EV exposures in vitro of human airway epithelium, with EV epithelium secreting higher IL-8 in response to infection (227 vs. 37 pg/ml, respectively; P < 0.05). Chronic EV inhalation in vivo reduced renal filtration by 20% ( P = 0.017). Fibrosis, assessed by Masson's trichrome and Picrosirius red staining, was increased in EV kidneys (1.86-fold, C57BL/6; 3.2-fold, CD-1; P < 0.05), heart (2.75-fold, C57BL/6 mice; P < 0.05), and liver (1.77-fold in CD-1; P < 0.0001). Gene expression changes demonstrated profibrotic pathway activation. EV inhalation altered cardiovascular function, with decreased heart rate ( P < 0.01), and elevated blood pressure ( P = 0.016). These data demonstrate that chronic inhalation of EV may lead to increased inflammation, organ damage, and cardiorenal and hepatic disease.
29181839	Dexamethasone	Hepatic Veno-Occlusive Disease	1	0	0	0		Abdominal computed tomography angiography in post-transplantation sinusoidal obstruction syndrome associated with R-DHAOX/BEAM toxicity.	
29169823	Dexamethasone	Intraoperative Complications	0	0	0	0		Effect of intra-operative single dose of dexamethasone for control of post-operative nausea and vomiting on the control of glucose levels in diabetic patients.	BACKGROUND: Dexamethasone adds a unique challenge to glycemic control, and it may complicate patient care if there is an association between intra-operative dexamethasone and blood glucose levels. METHODS: We analyzed 396 diabetic patients who underwent general anesthesia for various surgical procedures and were hospitalized post-operatively for at least 24 h between January 2015 and June 2016. Patients were classified into two groups-those who received dexamethasone intra-operatively and those who did not. The groups were analyzed for blood glucose changes during and following their procedure. RESULTS: A total of 396 diabetic patients (152 (38.8%) dexamethasone group; 244 (62.2%) control) were included. The dexamethasone group had significantly lower preoperative blood glucose (135.5 mmol/L) compared to the control group (144.4 mmol/L) (p = 0.04) and significantly lower proportion of patients who had received insulin during surgery (14.9%) compared to the control group (23.4%) (p = 0.04). Overall, glucose levels declined from pre-op to post-op day 1 by 9.6 (62.9) (p = 0.007). CONCLUSION: Diabetic patients receiving dexamethasone for control of post-operative nausea during surgery are at greater risk for increasing blood glucose levels and difficult glycemic control during and after surgery compared to patients receiving other medications to control post-operative nausea.
28969315	Sevoflurane	Neurodegenerative Diseases	1	0	0	0		Alternative technique or mitigating strategy for sevoflurane-induced neurodegeneration: a randomized controlled dose-escalation study of dexmedetomidine in neonatal rats.	BACKGROUND: Brain injury in newborn animals from prolonged anaesthetic exposure has raised concerns for millions of children undergoing anaesthesia every yr. Alternative anaesthetic techniques or mitigating strategies are urgently needed to ameliorate potentially harmful effects. We tested dexmedetomidine, both as a single agent alternative technique and as a mitigating adjuvant for sevoflurane anaesthesia. METHODS: Neonatal rats were randomized to three injections of dexmedetomidine (5, 25, 50, or 100 microg kg -1 every 2 h), or 6 h of 2.5% sevoflurane as a single agent without or with dexmedetomidine (1, 5, 10, or 20 microg kg -1 every 2 h). Heart rate, oxygen saturation, level of consciousness, and response to pain were assessed. Cell death was quantified in several brain regions. RESULTS: Dexmedetomidine provided lower levels of sedation and pain control than sevoflurane. Exposure to either sevoflurane or dexmedetomidine alone did not cause mortality, but the combination of 2.5% sevoflurane and dexmedetomidine in doses exceeding 1 microg kg -1 did. Sevoflurane increased apoptosis in all brain regions; supplementation with dexmedetomidine exacerbated neuronal injury, potentially as a result of ventilatory or haemodynamic compromise. Dexmedetomidine by itself increased apoptosis only in CA2/3 and the ventral posterior nucleus, but not in prefrontal cortex, retrosplenial cortex, somatosensory cortex, subiculum, lateral dorsal thalamic nucleaus, or hippocampal CA1. CONCLUSIONS: We confirm previous findings of sevoflurane-induced neuronal injury. Dexmedetomidine, even in the highest dose, did not cause similar injury, but provided lesser degrees of anaesthesia and pain control. No mitigation of sevoflurane-induced injury was observed with dexmedetomidine supplementation, suggesting that future studies should focus on anaesthetic-sparing effects of dexmedetomidine, rather than injury-preventing effects.
28575197	Sevoflurane	Memory Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Visual recognition memory is impaired in rhesus monkeys repeatedly exposed to sevoflurane in infancy.	BACKGROUND: Experimental studies in animals have shown that exposure to general anaesthesia in infancy can cause loss of cells in the central nervous system and long-term impairments in neurocognitive function. Some human epidemiological studies have shown increased risk of learning disability after repeated anaesthesia exposure in early childhood. Thus, we investigated in a highly translational rhesus monkey model, whether repeated exposure in infancy to the inhalation anaesthetic sevoflurane is associated with impaired visual recognition memory during the first two yr of life. METHODS: Rhesus monkeys of both sexes were exposed to sevoflurane inhalation anaesthesia on approximately postnatal day 7 and then again 14 and 28 days later, for four h each time. Visual recognition memory was tested using the visual paired comparison task, which measures memory by assessing preference for looking at a new image over a previously-viewed image. Monkeys were tested at 6-10 months of age, again at 12-18 months of age, and again at 24-30 months of age. RESULTS: No memory impairment was detected at 6-10 months old, but significant impairment (reduced time looking at the novel image) was observed at 12-18 and 24-30 months old. CONCLUSIONS: Repeated exposure of infant rhesus monkeys to sevoflurane results in visual recognition memory impairment that emerges after the first yr of life. This is consistent with epidemiological studies that show increased risk of learning disability after repeated exposure to anaesthesia in infancy/early childhood. Moreover, these deficits may emerge at later developmental stages, even when memory performance is unaffected earlier in development.
28482003	Sevoflurane	Cognition Disorders	0	1	0	0		Coenzyme Q10 reduces sevoflurane-induced cognitive deficiency in young mice.	BACKGROUND: Anaesthesia can induce cognitive deficiency in young rodents and monkeys. Mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to the anaesthesia-induced neurotoxicity and neurobehavioural deficits. We therefore assessed the effects of the mitochondrial energy enhancer coenzyme Q 10 (CoQ 10 ) on anaesthesia-induced cognitive deficiency in young mice to investigate the role of mitochondrial dysfunction. METHODS: Young mice ( n =134) were randomly assigned into the following four groups: control plus corn oil vehicle (60% oxygen); 3% sevoflurane [2 h daily on postnatal day (P) 6, 7, and 8] plus vehicle; CoQ 10 (50 mg kg -1 ) plus vehicle; or 3% sevoflurane plus CoQ 10 plus vehicle. We determined cognitive function using the Morris water maze at P31-P37. We quantified brain postsynaptic density protein-95, the presynaptic marker synaptophysin, adenosine triphosphate, reactive oxygen species, and mitochondrial membrane potential at P8 and P37. RESULTS: Coenzyme Q 10 reduced sevoflurane-induced cognitive deficiency in young mice ( F =0.90, P =0.49, n =10-16) and attenuated sevoflurane-induced reductions in postsynaptic density protein-95 ( F =10.56, P <0.01, n =6), synaptophysin ( F =8.44, P =0.01, n =6), adenosine triphosphate ( F =4.34, P =0.05, n =9), and mitochondrial membrane potential ( F =11.43, P <0.01, n =6), but not sevoflurane-induced increases in reactive oxygen species ( F =1.17, P =0.20, n =6), in brain. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that CoQ 10 reduces sevoflurane-induced cognitive deficiency by mitigating sevoflurane-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, the reduction in adenosine triphosphate, and synaptic dysfunction. Coenzyme Q 10 could provide an approach to reduce the neurotoxicity of anaesthesia in the developing brain.
28416236	Infliximab	Cardiac Tamponade	1	0	0	0		Cardiac tamponade. A complication of treatment with infliximab.	
28396134	Thalidomide	Primary Ovarian Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Amenorrhea during thalidomide treatment: An unusual cause of ovarian failure?	
28229445	Risperidone	Myelinolysis, Central Pontine	1	0	0	0		[Antypsychotic-induced central pontine myelinolysis in a congenital adrenal hyperplasia subject].	
30444960	Mirtazapine	Epistaxis	1	0	0	0		Mirtazapine-Induced Epistaxis in an Australian Indigenous Man.	
30195969	Clopidogrel	Postoperative Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Management of dental extractions in patients on warfarin and antiplatelet therapy.	BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Planning dental extractions for Taiwanese patients on antithrombotic therapy remains controversial. This study aimed to examine management of dental extraction in patients on warfarin and antiplatelet therapy. METHODS: Subjects comprised 1331 patients, with (1) 60 on warfarin with intentional normalized ratio (INR) below 4.0 (warfarin continued: 28 patients/33 occasions; warfarin stopped and switched to heparin under hospitalization: 32 patients/37 occasions); (2) 183 on antiplatelet therapy (aspirin: 125 patients/185 occasions; clopidogrel: 42 patients/65 occasions; dual therapy: 16 patients/24 occasions); and (3) a control group of 1088 patients/1472 occasions without any antithrombotic therapy. The patient's clinico-demographic parameters, warfarin effectiveness (dose and INR levels) and antiplatelet therapy, number and type of dental extraction and incidence of postoperative bleeding were investigated. RESULTS: Incidence of postoperative bleeding in the warfarinized group (warfarin continued: 9.1%; warfarin stopped: 8.1%) was higher than in the antiplatelet group (aspirin: 1.1%; clopidogrel: 3.1%; dual antiplatelet: 4.2%), and the control group (0.7%), but these differences were not significant and unrelated to INR or number and type of dental extraction. Postoperative hemorrhage was managed successfully by repacking with Gelfoam impregnated with tranexamic acid powder in most patients. CONCLUSION: The study indicated that there is no need to interrupt warfarin (INR<4.0) and antiplatelet therapy before dental extractions in Taiwanese patients. A sufficient hemostasis could be obtained using local measures. This approach can save these individuals from becoming exposed to the risk of thromboembolism and the inconvenience of bridging anticoagulation with heparin.
29921209	Latanoprost	Macular Edema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cystoid Macular Edema Due to Accidental Latanoprost Overdose After Uncomplicated Phacoemulsification.	OBJECTIVE: We present an interesting case of accidental overdose of latanoprost eye drops. CASE REPORT: A 71-year-old patient underwent an uncomplicated cataract surgery in his right eye. During the first postsurgical week he mistakenly used latanoprost eye drops six times daily instead of the prescribed tobramycin/dexamethasone eye drops. The patient experienced gradually decreasing visual acuity and was diagnosed with cystoid macular edema seven weeks after surgery. The cystoid macular edema resolved 4 weeks later after treatment with nepafenac 0.3% eye drops and oral acetazolamide. The cystoid macular edema recurred 2 weeks after rechallenge with latanoprost. The rechallenge-induced cystoid macular edema once again resolved after cessation of latanoprost and retreatment with nepafenac eye drops. A Naranjo assessment score of 7 was obtained, indicating a probable relationship between the patient's symptoms and the suspect drug.
29524094	Clobazam	Edema	1	0	1	1	1.0	Unusual side effects due to clobazam: a case report with edema of the extremities.	
29288103	Levonorgestrel	Hirsutism	1	0	0	0		Incidence of androgenic dermatologic side effects following placement of a levonorgestrel intrauterine device for menorrhagia: A survey-based study.	
28898520	Starch	Dysbiosis	0	0	0	0		Sugars and beyond. The role of sugars and the other nutrients and their potential impact on caries.	The traditional concept of caries as a multifactorial transmittable and infectious disease has been challenged. Novel conceptual ideas have come to add to the complexity of this highly prevalent disease worldwide. Current etiological understanding of the disease has emphasized the pivotal role of sugars in caries. In fact, current definition points toward an ecological disease caused by the commensal microbiota that under ecological imbalances, mainly due to high and or frequent sugars consumption, creates a state of dysbiosis in the dental biofilm. This modern conceptual idea, however, tends to underrate a key issue. As humans are omnivore and consume a mix diet composed by a multitude of substances, the role of the diet in caries must not be restricted only to the presence of fermentable sugars. This review explores the contribution of other food components, ubiquitous to the diet, mostly as potentially protective factors. Anticaries nutrients might determine an environmental change, affecting the ecology of the oral microbiome and partially mitigating the effect of sugars. Understanding the function of the food usually consumed by the people will contribute new knowledge on the mechanisms associated with the onset of caries, on new caries risk variables and on potential novel strategies for the prevention and treatment of the disease.
28755154	Levetiracetam	Hyponatremia	1	0	0	0		Levetiracetam-induced hyponatremia.	
30593135	Testosterone	Long Term Adverse Effects	1	1	1	1	1.0	Long-term hormonal therapy resulting in breast cancer in female-to-male transsexual: Case report.	RATIONALE: Testosterone is important for the development of secondary sexual characteristics in female-to-male transsexuals. On the contrary, it can increase the risk of breast cancer. PATIENT CONCERNS: We present a rare case of breast cancer in female-to-male transsexual patient after long-term hormonal therapy. DIAGNOSIS: Breast cancer in female-to-male transsexual patient. INTERVENTIONS: The patient underwent mastectomy and chemotherapy. OUTCOMES: The patient had local recurrence of the disease and he underwent re-excision, radiotherapy and the tamoxifen treatment. After this treatment, the patient is in the remission from the disease. LESSONS: Breast cancer in transsexuals appears to be rare. However, there is a potential risk that testosterone exposure can increase the risk of developing breast cancer by the stimulation of breast tissue. There is limited published literature on the risk of breast cancer in transsexual patients.
29576120	Gabapentin	Postoperative Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pattern of perioperative gabapentinoid use and risk for postoperative naloxone administration.	BACKGROUND: Single preoperative gabapentinoid (gabapentin and pregabalin) administration has been associated with respiratory depression during Phase I anaesthesia recovery. In this study, we assess for associations between chronic (home) use and perioperative administration (preoperative and postoperative) of gabapentinoids, and risk for severe over-sedation or respiratory depression as inferred from the use of naloxone. METHODS: From 2011 to 2016, we identified patients undergoing general anaesthesia discharged to standard postoperative wards and administered naloxone within 48 h of surgery in a single centre. These patients were 2:1 matched on age, sex, and type of procedure. Patient and perioperative characteristics were abstracted and compared to assess for risk for naloxone administration. RESULTS: We identified 128 patients that received naloxone after operation [odds ratio 1.2; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.0, 1.4 per 1000 general anaesthetics]. Patients on chronic or postoperative gabapentinoid therapy were at significantly higher risk for receiving naloxone after operation. Multivariable analysis detected significant interactions between chronic and postoperative use of gabapentinoids, where continuation of chronic gabapentinoid medications into the postoperative period was associated with an increased rate of naloxone administration (6.30, 95% CI 2.4, 16.7; P=0.001). Obstructive sleep apnoea (P=0.005) and preoperative disability (P=0.003) were also associated with an increased risk for postoperative naloxone administration. Patients who received naloxone had longer hospital stays and higher rates of postoperative delirium. CONCLUSIONS: Continuation of chronic gabapentinoid medications into the postoperative period is associated with the increased use of naloxone to reverse over-sedation or respiratory depression. Such patients requiring this therapy warrant high levels of postoperative monitoring.
29576120	Pregabalin	Respiratory Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pattern of perioperative gabapentinoid use and risk for postoperative naloxone administration.	BACKGROUND: Single preoperative gabapentinoid (gabapentin and pregabalin) administration has been associated with respiratory depression during Phase I anaesthesia recovery. In this study, we assess for associations between chronic (home) use and perioperative administration (preoperative and postoperative) of gabapentinoids, and risk for severe over-sedation or respiratory depression as inferred from the use of naloxone. METHODS: From 2011 to 2016, we identified patients undergoing general anaesthesia discharged to standard postoperative wards and administered naloxone within 48 h of surgery in a single centre. These patients were 2:1 matched on age, sex, and type of procedure. Patient and perioperative characteristics were abstracted and compared to assess for risk for naloxone administration. RESULTS: We identified 128 patients that received naloxone after operation [odds ratio 1.2; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.0, 1.4 per 1000 general anaesthetics]. Patients on chronic or postoperative gabapentinoid therapy were at significantly higher risk for receiving naloxone after operation. Multivariable analysis detected significant interactions between chronic and postoperative use of gabapentinoids, where continuation of chronic gabapentinoid medications into the postoperative period was associated with an increased rate of naloxone administration (6.30, 95% CI 2.4, 16.7; P=0.001). Obstructive sleep apnoea (P=0.005) and preoperative disability (P=0.003) were also associated with an increased risk for postoperative naloxone administration. Patients who received naloxone had longer hospital stays and higher rates of postoperative delirium. CONCLUSIONS: Continuation of chronic gabapentinoid medications into the postoperative period is associated with the increased use of naloxone to reverse over-sedation or respiratory depression. Such patients requiring this therapy warrant high levels of postoperative monitoring.
29576108	Buprenorphine	Hypotension	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and adverse effects of buprenorphine in acute pain management: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials.	Buprenorphine appears to have a ceiling effect on respiratory depression, but not analgesia in healthy young patients. However, the efficacy and side-effects of buprenorphine in the setting of acute pain are poorly characterized. The aim of this study was to characterize the analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of buprenorphine compared with morphine in the acute pain setting. A systematic review of five databases was performed. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing buprenorphine with morphine in acute pain management were included. Studies performed outside of the hospital setting were excluded. The a priori primary outcomes included pain, respiratory depression, and sedation. Secondary outcomes included requirement for rescue analgesia, time to rescue analgesia, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, hypotension, and pruritus. Twenty-eight RCTs with 2210 patients met the inclusion criteria. There was no difference in pain [visual analogue scale weighted mean difference (WMD)=-0.29; 95% confidence interval (CI)=-0.62 to 0.03; I(2)=99%; P=0.07], incidence of respiratory depression [odds ratio (OR)=2.07; 95% CI=0.78-5.51; I(2)=30%; P=0.14], or sedation (OR=1.44; 95% CI=0.76-2.74; I(2)=23%; P=0.26). There was only one secondary outcome with an overall significant difference; buprenorphine use was associated with significantly less pruritus (OR=0.31; 95% CI=0.12-0.84; I(2)=6%; P=0.02). Whilst a theoretical ceiling effect may exist with respect to buprenorphine and respiratory depression, in a clinical setting, it can still cause significant adverse effects on respiratory function. However, given that buprenorphine is an equally efficacious analgesic agent, it is a useful alternative opioid because of its ease of administration and reduced incidence of pruritus.
30558094	Bevacizumab	Fistula	1	0	0	1		Nivolumab therapy for lung cancer with tracheo-parenchymal fistula: A case report.	RATIONALE: Tracheobronchial fistulas are rare complications in lung cancer patients. These lesions are associated with a high rate of mortality caused by infection and bleeding, and there is no consensus on a definitive optimal therapy. PATIENT CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSES: The patient was a 59-year-old man with a right lung mass showing mediastinal invasion and tracheal compression, diagnosed with adenocarcinoma, cT4N0M0, stage IIIA. He was treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel, and the lesion markedly shrunk. Eleven months later, the lesion showed regrowth, and he underwent repeated chemotherapy for stabilization of the lesion. Thirty-six months after the first regrowth, the tumor showed regrowth again. The patient was then administered docetaxel and bevacizumab as fifth-line therapy. After 11 cycles of docetaxel and bevacizumab therapy, a tracheo-parenchymal fistula appeared. INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: Docetaxel and bevacizumab therapy was stopped, and nivolumab therapy was initiated. Subsequently, the fistula and cavity became stable with slight shrinkage. To date, the patient is alive with no complaints and no disease progression and has continued nivolumab for a total of 28 months. LESSONS: Immune-checkpoint inhibitor therapy involving nivolumab therapy might be a useful alternative for the treatment of lung cancer involving a tracheobronchial fistula.
30558094	Docetaxel	Fistula	1	0	0	1		Nivolumab therapy for lung cancer with tracheo-parenchymal fistula: A case report.	RATIONALE: Tracheobronchial fistulas are rare complications in lung cancer patients. These lesions are associated with a high rate of mortality caused by infection and bleeding, and there is no consensus on a definitive optimal therapy. PATIENT CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSES: The patient was a 59-year-old man with a right lung mass showing mediastinal invasion and tracheal compression, diagnosed with adenocarcinoma, cT4N0M0, stage IIIA. He was treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel, and the lesion markedly shrunk. Eleven months later, the lesion showed regrowth, and he underwent repeated chemotherapy for stabilization of the lesion. Thirty-six months after the first regrowth, the tumor showed regrowth again. The patient was then administered docetaxel and bevacizumab as fifth-line therapy. After 11 cycles of docetaxel and bevacizumab therapy, a tracheo-parenchymal fistula appeared. INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: Docetaxel and bevacizumab therapy was stopped, and nivolumab therapy was initiated. Subsequently, the fistula and cavity became stable with slight shrinkage. To date, the patient is alive with no complaints and no disease progression and has continued nivolumab for a total of 28 months. LESSONS: Immune-checkpoint inhibitor therapy involving nivolumab therapy might be a useful alternative for the treatment of lung cancer involving a tracheobronchial fistula.
30273961	Colistin	Infertility, Male	1	0	0	0		Improvement in colistin-induced reproductive damage, apoptosis, and autophagy in testes via reducing oxidative stress by chrysin.	This study aimed to investigate the effect of chrysin on colistin-induced reproductive toxicity. Twenty-eight adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups of seven rats each. Group I received physiological saline for 7 days. Group II received 50 mg/kg/day chrysin for 7 days. Group III received a total dose of 73 mg/kg colistin for 7 days. Group IV received 50 mg/kg/day chrysin by an oral gavage after the colistin treatment. Colistin causes an increase in oxidative stress (OS) in the testis. Chrysin treatment significantly decreased the OS in the chrysin + colistin group compared with the colistin group. The highest caspase-3 and LC3B expression levels were found in the colistin group and these levels were statistically lower in the chrysin + colistin group. Colistin treatment caused a decrease in sperm motility and an increase in sperm abnormality. Chrysin treatment mitigated these side effects significantly. In conclusion, chrysin treatment can be beneficial against colistin-induced reproductive toxicity.
30232205	Cocaine	Glomerulosclerosis, Focal Segmental	1	1	0	1	1.0	Unusual case of levamisole-induced dual-positive ANCA vasculitis and crescentic glomerulonephritis.	Cocaine adulterated levamisole is an increasingly reported cause of skin necrosis, arthralgia and systemic vasculitis, but renal involvement is uncommon. We present a case of a 40-year-old Hispanic man with a history of cocaine abuse who presented with acute kidney injury to the rheumatology clinic where he was being treated for chronic inflammatory arthritis. He was found to have a serum creatinine of 2.5 mg/dL, microscopic haematuria and subnephrotic proteinuria, along with positive proteinase 3, myeloperoxidase, anticardiolipin antibodies and an elevated antinuclear antibody titre. The renal pathology revealed focal necrotising glomerulonephritis with crescentic features and mild immune type deposition. The patient was treated with cocaine abstinence, pulse dose steroids followed by maintenance prednisone, rituximab and cyclophosphamide. His renal function subsequently improved but did not normalise. We believe that his incomplete improvement was due to the degree of kidney injury on presentation as well as recidivism with cocaine use.
30232205	Levamisole	Glomerulosclerosis, Focal Segmental	1	1	0	1	1.0	Unusual case of levamisole-induced dual-positive ANCA vasculitis and crescentic glomerulonephritis.	Cocaine adulterated levamisole is an increasingly reported cause of skin necrosis, arthralgia and systemic vasculitis, but renal involvement is uncommon. We present a case of a 40-year-old Hispanic man with a history of cocaine abuse who presented with acute kidney injury to the rheumatology clinic where he was being treated for chronic inflammatory arthritis. He was found to have a serum creatinine of 2.5 mg/dL, microscopic haematuria and subnephrotic proteinuria, along with positive proteinase 3, myeloperoxidase, anticardiolipin antibodies and an elevated antinuclear antibody titre. The renal pathology revealed focal necrotising glomerulonephritis with crescentic features and mild immune type deposition. The patient was treated with cocaine abstinence, pulse dose steroids followed by maintenance prednisone, rituximab and cyclophosphamide. His renal function subsequently improved but did not normalise. We believe that his incomplete improvement was due to the degree of kidney injury on presentation as well as recidivism with cocaine use.
29793613	Desflurane	Intraoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Over-delivery of desflurane via Aisys Carestation Aladin2 Cassette() vaporiser.	
29683100	Pioglitazone	Fractures, Bone	1	0	0	0		Pioglitazone Therapy and Fractures: Systematic Review and Meta- Analysis.	INTRODUCTION: Thiazolidinediones are a group of synthetic medications used in type 2 diabetes treatment. Among available thiazolidinediones, pioglitazone is gaining increased attention due to its lower cardiovascular risk in type 2 diabetes mellitus sufferers and seems a promising future therapy. Accumulating evidence suggests that diabetic patients may exert bone fractures due to such treatments. Simultaneously, the female population is thought to be at greater risk. Still, the safety outcomes of pioglitazone treatment especially in terms of fractures are questionable and need to be clarified. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Scopus, PsyInfo, eLIBRARY.ru electronic databases and clinical trial registries for studies reporting an association between pioglitazone and bone fractures in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients published before Feb 15, 2016. Among 1536 sources that were initially identified, six studies including 3172 patients proved relevant for further analysis. RESULT: Pooled analysis of the included studies demonstrated that after treatment with pioglitazone patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus had no significant increase in fracture risk [odds ratio (OR): 1.18, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.82 to 1.71, p=0.38] compared to other antidiabetic drugs or placebo. Additionally, no association was found between the risk of fractures and pioglitazone therapy duration. The gender of the patients involved was not relevant to the risk of fractures, too. CONCLUSION: Pioglitazone treatment in diabetic patients does not increase the incidence of bone fractures. Moreover, there is no significant association between patients' fractures, their gender and the period of exposure to pioglitazone. Additional longitudinal studies need to be undertaken to obtain more detailed information on bone fragility and pioglitazone therapy.
29389779	Gabapentin	Phobic Disorders	1	0	0	0		Trypophobia Associated With Gabapentin: A Case Report.	
29360652	Aripiprazole	Galactorrhea	1	0	0	0		Hyperprolactinemic Galactorrhea as a Side Effect of Aripiprazole: An Adolescent Case (Aripiprazole-Related Hyperprolactinemic Galactorrhea).	
29358327	Vitamin K 1	Calcinosis	0	1	0	0		Low-level overexpression of p53 promotes warfarin-induced calcification of porcine aortic valve interstitial cells by activating Slug gene transcription.	The most frequently used oral anti-coagulant warfarin has been implicated in inducing calcification of aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs), whereas the mechanism is not fully understood. The low-level activation of p53 is found to be involved in osteogenic transdifferentiation and calcification of AVICs. Whether p53 participates in warfarin-induced AVIC calcification remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of low-level p53 overexpression in warfarin-induced porcine AVIC (pAVIC) calcification. Immunostaining, quantitative PCR, and Western blotting revealed that p53 was expressed in human and pAVICs and that p53 expression was slightly increased in calcific human aortic valves compared with non-calcific valves. Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling staining indicated that apoptosis slightly increased in calcific aortic valves than in non-calcific valves. Warfarin treatment led to a low-level increase of p53 mRNA and protein in both pAVICs and mouse aortic valves. Low-level overexpression of p53 in pAVICs via an adenovirus vector did not affect pAVIC apoptosis but promoted warfarin-induced calcium deposition and expression of osteogenic markers. shRNA-mediated p53 knockdown attenuated the pAVIC calcium deposition and osteogenic marker expression. Moreover, ChIP and luciferase assays showed that p53 was recruited to the slug promoter and activated slug expression in calcific pAVICs. Of note, overexpression of Slug increased osteogenic marker Runx2 expression, but not pAVIC calcium deposition, and Slug knockdown attenuated pAVIC calcification and p53-mediated pAVIC calcium deposition and expression of osteogenic markers. In conclusion, we found that p53 plays an important role in warfarin induced pAVIC calcification, and increased slug transcription by p53 is required for p53-mediated pAVIC calcification.
29358327	Vitamin K 1	Heart Valve Diseases	0	1	0	0		Low-level overexpression of p53 promotes warfarin-induced calcification of porcine aortic valve interstitial cells by activating Slug gene transcription.	The most frequently used oral anti-coagulant warfarin has been implicated in inducing calcification of aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs), whereas the mechanism is not fully understood. The low-level activation of p53 is found to be involved in osteogenic transdifferentiation and calcification of AVICs. Whether p53 participates in warfarin-induced AVIC calcification remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the role of low-level p53 overexpression in warfarin-induced porcine AVIC (pAVIC) calcification. Immunostaining, quantitative PCR, and Western blotting revealed that p53 was expressed in human and pAVICs and that p53 expression was slightly increased in calcific human aortic valves compared with non-calcific valves. Terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling staining indicated that apoptosis slightly increased in calcific aortic valves than in non-calcific valves. Warfarin treatment led to a low-level increase of p53 mRNA and protein in both pAVICs and mouse aortic valves. Low-level overexpression of p53 in pAVICs via an adenovirus vector did not affect pAVIC apoptosis but promoted warfarin-induced calcium deposition and expression of osteogenic markers. shRNA-mediated p53 knockdown attenuated the pAVIC calcium deposition and osteogenic marker expression. Moreover, ChIP and luciferase assays showed that p53 was recruited to the slug promoter and activated slug expression in calcific pAVICs. Of note, overexpression of Slug increased osteogenic marker Runx2 expression, but not pAVIC calcium deposition, and Slug knockdown attenuated pAVIC calcification and p53-mediated pAVIC calcium deposition and expression of osteogenic markers. In conclusion, we found that p53 plays an important role in warfarin induced pAVIC calcification, and increased slug transcription by p53 is required for p53-mediated pAVIC calcification.
29257789	Aripiprazole	Trichotillomania	1	0	0	0		Trichotillomania Associated With Aripiprazole: A Case Report.	
29073690	Folic Acid	Infant, Premature, Diseases	1	1	1	1	0.0	Fetal Valproate Syndrome - Still a Problem Today!	Introduction Fetal exposition to valproate can lead to a cluster of facial dysmorphism, congenital anomalies and neurodevelopmental retardation. Case Report In this report we describe 2 cases of fetal valproate syndrome. In the first case, the gravida had a valproate medication before and during pregnancy with additional folic acid. She delivered a male premature infant at 25+2 weeks of gestation due to preterm labor and rupture of the membranes. Physical examination showed even in the premature infant typical signs of fetal valproate syndrome with trigonocephaly, epicanthal folds, broad root of the nose, low-set ears, thin upper lip and anteverted nares. In the second case, the gravida was under antiepileptic therapy with valproate and lamotrigine before and during pregnancy without any prophylaxis with folic acid. Sonographic examination during pregnancy diagnosed a spina bifida, Chiari II malformation and clubfeet. A female newborn was delivered at 39+4 weeks of gestation. Besides the prenatally detected anomalies, facial dysmorphism including microcephaly, low-set ears, thin upper lip and shallow philtrum were seen after birth. Conclusion Valproate, a widely used anticonvulsant medication, is known for its teratogenic effects. The risk of congenital anomalies is even higher in combination with other antiepileptic drugs. Therefore, the avoidance of valproate or at least supplementation with a high dose prophylactic folic acid before and during pregnancy is highly recommended for women with epilepsy.
29073690	Valproic Acid	Infant, Premature, Diseases	1	1	1	1	0.0	Fetal Valproate Syndrome - Still a Problem Today!	Introduction Fetal exposition to valproate can lead to a cluster of facial dysmorphism, congenital anomalies and neurodevelopmental retardation. Case Report In this report we describe 2 cases of fetal valproate syndrome. In the first case, the gravida had a valproate medication before and during pregnancy with additional folic acid. She delivered a male premature infant at 25+2 weeks of gestation due to preterm labor and rupture of the membranes. Physical examination showed even in the premature infant typical signs of fetal valproate syndrome with trigonocephaly, epicanthal folds, broad root of the nose, low-set ears, thin upper lip and anteverted nares. In the second case, the gravida was under antiepileptic therapy with valproate and lamotrigine before and during pregnancy without any prophylaxis with folic acid. Sonographic examination during pregnancy diagnosed a spina bifida, Chiari II malformation and clubfeet. A female newborn was delivered at 39+4 weeks of gestation. Besides the prenatally detected anomalies, facial dysmorphism including microcephaly, low-set ears, thin upper lip and shallow philtrum were seen after birth. Conclusion Valproate, a widely used anticonvulsant medication, is known for its teratogenic effects. The risk of congenital anomalies is even higher in combination with other antiepileptic drugs. Therefore, the avoidance of valproate or at least supplementation with a high dose prophylactic folic acid before and during pregnancy is highly recommended for women with epilepsy.
28796018	Quetiapine Fumarate	Agranulocytosis	1	0	0	0		Fatal Agranulocytosis Associated With Quetiapine in Monotherapy: A Case Report.	
28786828	Aripiprazole	Parkinsonian Disorders	1	0	0	0		Severe Parkinsonism and Creatine Kinase Increase After Low-Dose Aripiprazole Treatment in a Patient of African Descent.	
28719423	Olanzapine	Somnambulism	1	0	0	0		Sleepwalking Is Associated With Coadministration of Olanzapine and Propranolol: A Case Report.	
28561211	Methamphetamine	Pregnancy Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Increasing Consumption of Crystal Meth in Saxony and its Risks for Mother and Child - Experiences at a Level I Perinatal Center from a Pediatric Viewpoint].	"Over the past several years, the number of first-time users of methamphetamine considerably increased within the Free State of Saxony. This number also, and especially, includes women of child-bearing age and young mothers. A supportive intervention aimed at reducing the effects of drug abuse should begin in a timely way - during pregnancy at latest, but better before it. To develop an optimal care protocol for both the mother and her child, more knowledge regarding the personal conditions of the women as well as the specific features of later child development after prenatal methamphetamine exposure (PME) is vital. In this study, the data of 129 women and their newborns with PME who were admitted to a Level-1 perinatal center between 2007 and 2015 were analyzed. At delivery, two-thirds of the women were aged 20-30 years. Only 48% attended their first preventive examination in pregnancy within the first 12 weeks. Their children subsequently presented with heterogeneous withdrawal symptoms, and pathological findings of the heart, urogenital and central nervous system. The present data aims to sensitize pediatric and obstetric health professionals to the need for timely and adequate care and support. A pathway model of detoxification treatment for mother and child - ""The Dresden Crystal Path"" - is presented. It combines public and voluntary youth welfare organizations, public health authorities, a public drugs advisory service as well as medical care facilities. Moreover, it describes the coordination of different medical subspecialties such as pediatrics, obstetrics/gynecology and psychiatry."
28556555	Hydroxychloroquine	Anemia, Hemolytic	1	0	0	0		Examination of Hydroxychloroquine Use and Hemolytic Anemia in G6PDH-Deficient Patients.	OBJECTIVE: Some sources urge caution when prescribing hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to patients with G6PDH deficiency, presumably due to a risk of hemolytic anemia. There are limited published data, however, to support this risk. Additionally, not all patients with G6PDH deficiency are at similar risk for hemolysis, and people with the African variant are at particularly low risk. Through a retrospective chart review, we aimed to quantify the frequency of G6PDH-deficient patients with hemolysis attributed to HCQ. METHODS: We identified Duke University Medical Center rheumatology patients with HCQ use and a measured G6PDH level. A retrospective chart review was performed, recording demographics, G6PDH levels, episodes of anemia, laboratory values consistent with hemolysis, and HCQ use. RESULTS: Of the 275 patients reviewed, 84% were female; 46% were African American and 48% were white. The leading diagnoses were systemic lupus erythematosus (32%), rheumatoid arthritis (29%), and inflammatory arthritis (14%). Only 4% of patients were G6PDH deficient (all African American). Two G6PDH-deficient patients had hemolysis during severe lupus flares that occurred while not taking HCQ. There were no reported episodes of hemolysis in more than 700 months of HCQ exposure among the 11 G6PDH-deficient patients. CONCLUSION: This is the largest study to date evaluating G6PDH deficiency with concurrent use of HCQ. Of 11 patients with G6PDH deficiency, 2 had episodes of hemolysis, but these did not occur during HCQ therapy. These data do not support routine measurement of G6PDH levels or withholding HCQ therapy among African American patients with G6PDH deficiency.
26864240	Allopurinol	Retinal Diseases	1	0	0	0		A case report on allopurinol induced crystalline maculopathy.	
26692320	Azathioprine	Bulbar Palsy, Progressive	1	0	0	0		Patient with statin-associated immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy presenting with subcutaneous edema, persistent bulbar weakness and absent anti-HMGCR.	
26692320	Simvastatin	Edema	1	0	0	0		Patient with statin-associated immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy presenting with subcutaneous edema, persistent bulbar weakness and absent anti-HMGCR.	
26179887	Docetaxel	Scleroderma, Diffuse	1	0	0	0		Docetaxel-induced scleroderma: a case report and its role in the production of extracellular matrix.	
26012729	Etanercept	Glomerulonephritis	1	0	0	0		ANCA-positive crescentic glomerulonephritis in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis treated with anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha.	
30246751	Insulin	Xerostomia	0	1	0	0		A comparative evaluation of dental caries status and salivary properties of children aged 5-14 years undergoing treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, type I diabetes mellitus, and asthma - In vivo.	BACKGROUND: The subjective sensation of dry mouth, xerostomia, is a well-recognized problem in adults, however, relatively little attention has been paid to this issue in children. Xerostomia commonly occurs as an adverse effect of drugs in asthma and leukemia, which alter the composition and flow of saliva and systemic diseases, including diabetes. It decreases the oral pH and significantly increases the development of plaque and dental caries. AIM: This study aims to evaluate and compare the dental caries status and salivary properties of children aged 5-14 years undergoing treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and asthma - in vivo. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was divided into two parts: Part I: Oral examination was performed and dental caries status Decayed, Missing, Filled Teeth/ decayed, extraction, filled teeth (DMFT/deft) was noted and Part II: Salivary analysis was performed by GC Saliva-Check BUFFER kit to check for hydration, viscosity, pH of saliva, salivary flow, and buffering capacity. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: All statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS 21 statistical software version. Inferential statistics were performed using Chi-square test and ANOVA. Post hoc pairwise comparison was done using Post hoc Tukey's test. RESULTS: The prevalence of mean DMFT/deft with regard to salivary properties was highest in leukemic patients followed in descending order by diabetic and asthmatic patients. CONCLUSIONS: Leukemic patients had significantly higher caries and decreased salivary properties while asthmatic patients showed the least caries prevalence and best salivary properties.
29800643	Arsenic	Albuminuria	0	1	0	0		Evaluation of kidney injury biomarkers in an adult Mexican population environmentally exposed to fluoride and low arsenic levels.	Fluoride (F) is a toxicant widely distributed in the environment. Experimental studies have shown kidney toxicity from F exposure. However, co-exposure to arsenic (As) has not been considered, and epidemiological information remains limited. We evaluated the association between F exposure and urinary kidney injury biomarkers and assessed As co-exposure interactions. A cross-sectional study was conducted in 239 adults (18-77 years old) from three communities in Chihuahua, Mexico. Exposure to F was assessed in urine and drinking water, and As in urine samples. We evaluated the urinary concentrations of albumin (ALB), cystatin-C (Cys-C), kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1), clusterin (CLU), osteopontin (OPN), and trefoil factor 3 (TFF-3). The estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using serum creatinine (Creat) levels. We observed a positive correlation between water and urine F concentrations (rho = 0.7419, p < 0.0001), with median values of 1.5 mg/L and 2 mug/mL, respectively, suggesting that drinking water was the main source of F exposure. The geometric mean of urinary As was 18.55 ng/mL, approximately 39% of the urine samples had As concentrations above the human biomonitoring value (15 ng/mL). Multiple linear regression models demonstrated a positive association between urinary F and ALB (beta = 0.56, p < 0.001), Cys-C (beta = 0.022, p = 0.001), KIM-1 (beta = 0.048, p = 0.008), OPN (beta = 0.38, p = 0.041), and eGFR (beta = 0.49, p = 0.03); however, CLU (beta = 0.07, p = 0.100) and TFF-3 (beta = 1.14, p = 0.115) did not show significant associations. No interaction with As exposure was observed. In conclusion, F exposure was related to the urinary excretion of early kidney injury biomarkers, supporting the hypothesis of the nephrotoxic role of F exposure.
30290801	Tiotropium Bromide	Pneumonia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid use and the risk of pneumonia in COPD: a matched-subgroup post hoc analysis of the UPLIFT(R) trial.	BACKGROUND: Use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) increases the risk of pneumonia in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but the magnitude of risk with different ICS remains unclear. METHODS: A post hoc analysis of the 4-year UPLIFT(R) trial to assess whether pneumonia risk differed by type of ICS (fluticasone propionate [FP], other ICS, or no ICS) in permanent users (defined by use until end of study) or in users at baseline (sensitivity analysis). RESULTS: For the permanent-users analysis, 825 patients receiving FP throughout the trial, 825 patients receiving other ICS and 825 patients not receiving ICS were matched on relevant baseline features 1:1:1. A significantly greater risk of pneumonia was observed for FP versus no ICS: the hazard ratio (HR) for risk of pneumonia was 1.33 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.00, 1.75; p = 0.046) and the rate ratio (RR) was 1.58 (95% CI 1.05, 2.37; p = 0.028). A greater risk was also found for FP versus other ICS: HR 1.28 (95% CI 0.97, 1.68; p = 0.078) and RR 1.48 (95% CI 1.00, 2.19; p = 0.049). A higher proportion of patients on FP were hospitalized with pneumonia (7.9%) versus other ICS (6.7%) or no ICS (5.9%). Whilst other ICS use was associated with the highest number of fatal pneumonia events, the total number of fatal pneumonia incidents was low. A similar pattern was observed in the sensitivity analyses, which included 4002 patients on different treatments at baseline (FP, other ICS, and no ICS) and considered potential switches during the study. CONCLUSION: The results support existing evidence of an increased pneumonia risk with FP use compared with other ICS and no ICS use in patients with COPD. Healthcare professionals should evaluate the risk-benefit ratio of using ICS when making treatment decisions with their patients. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Post hoc analysis of UPLIFT(R). ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT00144339 . Retrospectively registered September 2, 2005.
30044117	Ketamine	Hypercapnia	0	0	0	0		Arterial pH and blood gas values in rats under three types of general anesthesia: a chronobiological study.	The aim of study was to review the status of arterial pH, pO(2) and pCO(2) under general anesthesias in dependence on the light-dark (LD) cycle in spontaneously breathing rats. The experiments were performed using three- to four-month-old pentobarbital(P)-, ketamine/xylazine(K/X)- and zoletil(Z)-anesthetized female Wistar rats after a four-week adaptation to an LD cycle (12 h light:12 h dark). The animals were divided into three experimental groups according to the anesthetic agent used: P (light n=11; dark n=8); K/X (light n=13; dark n=11); and Z (light n=18; dark n=26). pH and blood gases from arterial blood were analyzed. In P anesthesia, LD differences in pH, pO(2), and pCO(2) were eliminated. In K/X anesthesia, parameters showed significant LD differences. In Z anesthesia, LD differences were detected for pH and pO(2) only. Acidosis, hypoxia, and hypercapnia have been reported for all types of anesthesia during the light period. In the dark period, except for P anesthesia, the environment was more stable and values fluctuated within normal ranges. From a chronobiological perspective, P anesthesia was not the most appropriate type of anesthesia in these rat experiments. It eliminated LD differences, and also produced a more acidic environment and more pronounced hypercapnia than K/X and Z anesthesias.
30044117	Pentobarbital	Hypercapnia	0	0	0	0		Arterial pH and blood gas values in rats under three types of general anesthesia: a chronobiological study.	The aim of study was to review the status of arterial pH, pO(2) and pCO(2) under general anesthesias in dependence on the light-dark (LD) cycle in spontaneously breathing rats. The experiments were performed using three- to four-month-old pentobarbital(P)-, ketamine/xylazine(K/X)- and zoletil(Z)-anesthetized female Wistar rats after a four-week adaptation to an LD cycle (12 h light:12 h dark). The animals were divided into three experimental groups according to the anesthetic agent used: P (light n=11; dark n=8); K/X (light n=13; dark n=11); and Z (light n=18; dark n=26). pH and blood gases from arterial blood were analyzed. In P anesthesia, LD differences in pH, pO(2), and pCO(2) were eliminated. In K/X anesthesia, parameters showed significant LD differences. In Z anesthesia, LD differences were detected for pH and pO(2) only. Acidosis, hypoxia, and hypercapnia have been reported for all types of anesthesia during the light period. In the dark period, except for P anesthesia, the environment was more stable and values fluctuated within normal ranges. From a chronobiological perspective, P anesthesia was not the most appropriate type of anesthesia in these rat experiments. It eliminated LD differences, and also produced a more acidic environment and more pronounced hypercapnia than K/X and Z anesthesias.
29975203	Ropivacaine	Muscle Weakness	0	0	0	0		Preoperative Fascia Iliaca Block Does Not Improve Analgesia after Arthroscopic Hip Surgery, but Causes Quadriceps Muscles Weakness: A Randomized, Double-blind Trial.	WHAT WE ALREADY KNOW ABOUT THIS TOPIC: WHAT THIS ARTICLE TELLS US THAT IS NEW: BACKGROUND:: Ambulatory hip arthroscopy is associated with postoperative pain routinely requiring opioid analgesia. The potential role of peripheral nerve blocks for pain control after hip arthroscopy is controversial. This trial investigated whether a preoperative fascia iliaca block improves postoperative analgesia. METHODS: In a prospective, double-blinded trial, 80 patients scheduled for hip arthroscopy were randomized to receive a preoperative fascia iliaca block with 40 ml ropivacaine 0.2% or saline. Patients also received an intraarticular injection of 10-ml ropivacaine 0.2% at procedure end. Primary study endpoint was highest pain score reported in the recovery room; other study endpoints were pain scores and opioid use 24 h after surgery. Additionally, quadriceps strength was measured to identify leg weakness. RESULTS: The analysis included 78 patients. Highest pain scores in the recovery room were similar in the block group (6 +/- 2) versus placebo group (7 +/- 2), difference: -0.2 (95% CI, -1.1 to 0.7), as was opioid use (intravenous morphine equivalent dose: 15 +/- 7mg [block] vs. 16 +/- 9 mg [placebo]). Once discharged home, patients experienced similar pain and opioid use (13 +/- 7 mg [block] vs. 12 +/- 8 mg [placebo]) in the 24 h after surgery. The fascia iliaca block resulted in noticeable quadriceps weakness. There were four postoperative falls in the block group versus one fall in the placebo group. CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative fascia iliaca blockade in addition to intraarticular local anesthetic injection did not improve pain control after hip arthroscopy but did result in quadriceps weakness, which may contribute to an increased fall risk. Routine use of this block cannot be recommended in this patient population.
29879475	Moxifloxacin	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	0	1	0	0		Challenges in implementing and obtaining acceptance for J-Tpeak assessment as the clinical component of CiPA.	INTRODUCTION: This paper is based on a presentation held at the Annual Safety Pharmacology Society meeting in September 2017, at which challenges for the clinical component of CiPA were presented. FDA has published an automated algorithm for measurement of the J-Tpeak interval on a median beat from a vector magnitude lead derived from a 12-lead ECG. CiPA proposes that J-Tpeak prolongation < 10 ms can be used for drugs with a QTc effect < 20 ms to differentiate between safe and unsafe delayed repolarization and to reduce the level of ECG monitoring in late stage clinical trials. METHODS: We applied FDA's algorithm, complemented with iCOMPAS, to moxifloxacin and dolasetron data from the IQ-CSRC study with 9 subjects on active and 6 on placebo. The effect on QTcF and corrected J-Tpeak (J-Tpeak_c) was analyzed using concentration-effect modeling. RESULTS: There was a good correlation between QTcF and J-Tpeak_c prolongation after oral dosing of 400 mg moxifloxacin with placebo-adjusted, change-from-baseline (DeltaDelta) J-Tpeak_c of ~12 ms at concentrations that caused DeltaDeltaQTcF of ~20 ms. On dolasetron, J-Tpeak_c was highly variable, no prolongation was seen and an effect on DeltaDeltaJ-Tpeak_c > 10 ms could be excluded across the observed plasma concentration range. DISCUSSION: In this limited analysis performed on the IQ-CSRC study waveforms using FDA's automated algorithm, J-Tpeak prolongation was observed on moxifloxacin, but not on dolasetron, despite clinical observations of proarrhythmias with both drugs. Challenges for the implementation of the J-Tpeak interval as a replacement or complement to the QTc interval, include to demonstrate that the proposed clinical algorithm using a J-Tpeak threshold of 10 ms, can be used to categorize drugs with a QT effect up to ~20 ms as having low pro-arrhythmic risk.
29879475	Moxifloxacin	Long QT Syndrome	0	1	0	0		Challenges in implementing and obtaining acceptance for J-Tpeak assessment as the clinical component of CiPA.	INTRODUCTION: This paper is based on a presentation held at the Annual Safety Pharmacology Society meeting in September 2017, at which challenges for the clinical component of CiPA were presented. FDA has published an automated algorithm for measurement of the J-Tpeak interval on a median beat from a vector magnitude lead derived from a 12-lead ECG. CiPA proposes that J-Tpeak prolongation < 10 ms can be used for drugs with a QTc effect < 20 ms to differentiate between safe and unsafe delayed repolarization and to reduce the level of ECG monitoring in late stage clinical trials. METHODS: We applied FDA's algorithm, complemented with iCOMPAS, to moxifloxacin and dolasetron data from the IQ-CSRC study with 9 subjects on active and 6 on placebo. The effect on QTcF and corrected J-Tpeak (J-Tpeak_c) was analyzed using concentration-effect modeling. RESULTS: There was a good correlation between QTcF and J-Tpeak_c prolongation after oral dosing of 400 mg moxifloxacin with placebo-adjusted, change-from-baseline (DeltaDelta) J-Tpeak_c of ~12 ms at concentrations that caused DeltaDeltaQTcF of ~20 ms. On dolasetron, J-Tpeak_c was highly variable, no prolongation was seen and an effect on DeltaDeltaJ-Tpeak_c > 10 ms could be excluded across the observed plasma concentration range. DISCUSSION: In this limited analysis performed on the IQ-CSRC study waveforms using FDA's automated algorithm, J-Tpeak prolongation was observed on moxifloxacin, but not on dolasetron, despite clinical observations of proarrhythmias with both drugs. Challenges for the implementation of the J-Tpeak interval as a replacement or complement to the QTc interval, include to demonstrate that the proposed clinical algorithm using a J-Tpeak threshold of 10 ms, can be used to categorize drugs with a QT effect up to ~20 ms as having low pro-arrhythmic risk.
29776576	Dronedarone	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Safety of apixaban in combination with dronedarone in patients with atrial fibrillation.	BACKGROUND: There have been concerns about bleeding risks for patients with atrial fibrillation treated with dronedarone in combination with new oral anticoagulants (NOACs). The aim of the study was to compare the bleeding risks with the apixaban + dronedarone and warfarin + dronedarone combinations. METHOD: Retrospective study of Swedish nationwide health registers. All patients with atrial fibrillation who used dronedarone in combination with apixaban or warfarin during 2013-2016 were identified. Two propensity matched cohorts of each 1681 patients were compared. The main endpoint included intracranial bleeding, bleedings with hospitalization and fatal bleedings. RESULTS: Bleedings thus defined occurred at rates of 1.31 and 2.14 per 100 years at risk with the apixaban and warfarin combinations respectively (p = 0.121). The hazard ratio with the apixaban combination was 0.66 (CI 0.35-1.23) compared to the warfarin combination. No significant differences were seen regarding secondary endpoints. CONCLUSION: Major bleedings were rare among patients with atrial fibrillation treated with dronedarone in combination with apixaban or warfarin. No significant differences in favour of either drug combination were found.
29752167	Sitagliptin Phosphate	Diabetic Retinopathy	1	0	0	0		Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor use and risk of diabetic retinopathy: A population-based study.	AIMS: This study examined whether dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP)-4 inhibitor use is beneficial or harmful to diabetic retinopathy (DR) compared with other glucose-lowering agents in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). METHODS: From a population-based cohort provided by the National Health Insurance Service in Korea, 67,743 adults with T2D were identified as having been treated with oral glucose-lowering agents between 2008 and 2013. Matching (1:1) was performed for two groups comparing ever-use (cases) and never-use (controls) of DPP-4 inhibitors (n=14,522 in each group). Cox regression analyses were used to assess risk of the following DR events: vitreous haemorrhage; vitrectomy or photocoagulation; intravitreal agent use; and blindness. RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 28.4 (14.0-45.2) months, there were 305 (in controls) and 342 (in cases) composite DR events. DPP-4 inhibitor ever-use was not associated with overall risk of composite DR events [adjusted hazard ratio (HR): 1.08, 95% CI: 0.93-1.26] compared with never-use, nor was the risk of each DR outcome increased with DPP-4 inhibitor therapy either. However, DPP-4 inhibitor administration for<12 months was associated with a greater risk of composite DR events (adjusted HR: 1.31, 95% CI: 1.09-1.57) compared with other glucose-lowering agents over the same treatment period. CONCLUSION: In comparison to other oral glucose-lowering agents, DPP-4 inhibitor treatment did not increase overall risk of DR. However, DPP-4 inhibitors may be associated with an increased risk of retinopathy events early in the treatment phase.
29750886	Linoleic Acids, Conjugated	Atherosclerosis	0	0	0	0		Co-administration of conjugated linoleic acid and rosiglitazone increases atherogenic co-efficient and alters isoprenaline-induced vasodilatation in rats fed high fat diet.	The cis(c)-9, trans(t)-11 (c9,t11) and t10,c12 isomers of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) have been reported as agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) and beneficial in lipidemia and glycemia. However, it is unclear whether CLA isomers enhance or antagonize effects of conventional drugs targeting PPAR. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed high fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks and treated without or with CLA, rosiglitazone or both for 4 weeks. Oral glucose tolerance and surrogate markers of insulin resistance were not significantly different for all treatments compared to untreated normal diet (ND) or HFD group, except lipoprotein levels. The combination of CLA and rosiglitazone had suppressed levels of low and high density lipoproteins (46 % and 25 %, respectively), compared to HFD-alone. Conversely, the atherogenic co-efficient of the animals received HFD or HFD+rosiglitazone+CLA was 2-folds higher than ND, HFD+rosiglitazone or HFD+CLA. Isolated aortic rings from the combined CLA and rosiglitazone treated animals were less sensitive to isoprenaline-induced relaxation among endothelium-denuded aortas with a decreased efficacy and potency (R(max)=53+/-4.7 %; pEC50=6+/-0.2) compared to endothelium-intact aortas (R(max)=100+/-9.9 %; pEC50=7+/-0.2). Our findings illustrate that the combination of CLA and rosiglitazone precede the atherogenic state with impaired endothelium-independent vasodilatation before the onset of HFD-induced insulin resistance.
29750886	Rosiglitazone	Atherosclerosis	0	0	0	0		Co-administration of conjugated linoleic acid and rosiglitazone increases atherogenic co-efficient and alters isoprenaline-induced vasodilatation in rats fed high fat diet.	The cis(c)-9, trans(t)-11 (c9,t11) and t10,c12 isomers of conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) have been reported as agonists of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) and beneficial in lipidemia and glycemia. However, it is unclear whether CLA isomers enhance or antagonize effects of conventional drugs targeting PPAR. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed high fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks and treated without or with CLA, rosiglitazone or both for 4 weeks. Oral glucose tolerance and surrogate markers of insulin resistance were not significantly different for all treatments compared to untreated normal diet (ND) or HFD group, except lipoprotein levels. The combination of CLA and rosiglitazone had suppressed levels of low and high density lipoproteins (46 % and 25 %, respectively), compared to HFD-alone. Conversely, the atherogenic co-efficient of the animals received HFD or HFD+rosiglitazone+CLA was 2-folds higher than ND, HFD+rosiglitazone or HFD+CLA. Isolated aortic rings from the combined CLA and rosiglitazone treated animals were less sensitive to isoprenaline-induced relaxation among endothelium-denuded aortas with a decreased efficacy and potency (R(max)=53+/-4.7 %; pEC50=6+/-0.2) compared to endothelium-intact aortas (R(max)=100+/-9.9 %; pEC50=7+/-0.2). Our findings illustrate that the combination of CLA and rosiglitazone precede the atherogenic state with impaired endothelium-independent vasodilatation before the onset of HFD-induced insulin resistance.
29494421	Lenalidomide	Hematologic Diseases	0	1	0	0		Phase II Clinical Trial of Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone Therapy in Japanese Elderly Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma to Determine Optimal Plasma Concentration of Lenalidomide.	BACKGROUND: The authors conducted a phase II clinical trial of lenalidomide and dexamethasone combination therapy in Japanese elderly patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma to evaluate its safety and efficacy and to determine whether safety and efficacy correlate with the plasma concentration of lenalidomide. METHODS: Forty patients received oral lenalidomide on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle in addition to weekly doses of dexamethasone. Plasma concentrations of lenalidomide were measured, and the area under the concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 hours (AUC0-24) of lenalidomide was predicted using a formula the authors previously reported in this journal. RESULTS: The median age was 75.5 years. Twenty-one patients had renal impairment severe enough to require dose adjustment of lenalidomide. The median initial doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone were 12.5 and 20 mg, respectively. The overall response rate was 68.6%, and the 2-year overall survival rate was 88.5%. There was no correlation between the response rate and plasma concentration of lenalidomide. Grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) were observed in 57.5% of patients. The AUC0-24 of lenalidomide was significantly higher in patients with grade 3-4 AEs than in those who did not suffer from AEs (median = 4852.0 versus 2464.9 ng.h.mL, P = 0.027). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the AUC0-24 of lenalidomide was a good predictor of grade 3-4 AEs, with an area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve of 0.758 (95% confidence interval, 0.572-0.943, P = 0.027). The cutoff value for best prediction of grade 3-4 AEs was 2613.5 ng.h.mL (sensitivity 86.7%, specificity 54.5%). Multivariate logistic analysis confirmed the significance of this cutoff value. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that overexposure to lenalidomide could contribute to toxicity. Furthermore, the predicted cutoff value of AUC0-24 can be clinically used to prevent severe AEs.
28918779	Ipilimumab	Diabetes Mellitus	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Acutely induced diabetes mellitus in a 63-year-old female after treatment with ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma].	Immune checkpoint inhibitors have improved survival rate in patients with advanced melanoma, but also have the potential to induce several adverse events. We report on a 63-year-old woman who had advanced melanoma and was admitted with diabetic ketoacidosis, which had occurred upon treatment with ipilimumab. On admission, the C-peptide level was low, and the HbA1c concentration was 50 mmol/l indicating a rapid onset of the disease. The patient had also been diagnosed with thyroiditis. Diabetes mellitus is a rare and serious side effect of treatment with ipilimumab, and we recommend being aware of this due to the rapid course.
28278708	Lenalidomide	Cell Transformation, Neoplastic	1	0	0	0		Myelodysplastic syndrome with concomitant del(5q) and JAK2 V617F mutation transformed to acute myeloid leukemia with an additional chromosomal abnormality after a long-term treatment with lenalidomide.	
28278708	Lenalidomide	Chromosome Aberrations	1	0	0	0		Myelodysplastic syndrome with concomitant del(5q) and JAK2 V617F mutation transformed to acute myeloid leukemia with an additional chromosomal abnormality after a long-term treatment with lenalidomide.	
30238510	Dimethyl Fumarate	Hematologic Diseases	0	0	0	0		Clinical use of dimethyl fumarate in moderate-to-severe plaque-type psoriasis: a European expert consensus.	Fumaric acid esters (FAEs) are a group of small molecules that were first investigated for the treatment of psoriasis in 1959. The first fumarate-based drug - Fumaderm((R)) - was approved in Germany in 1994 for severe psoriasis and then in 2008, the label was expanded to include moderate psoriasis. Fumaderm is a combination of different FAEs: dimethyl fumarate (DMF), which is regarded as the main active component, plus calcium, magnesium and zinc salts of monoethyl fumarate (MEF). FAEs are the most frequently used first-line systemic psoriasis treatment in Germany, with an overall treatment experience comprising more than 220 000 patient-years. FAEs have demonstrated good, sustained clinical efficacy with an acceptable safety profile for the long-term treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis. Indeed, the European S3-Guideline on the systemic treatment of Psoriasis vulgaris recommends FAEs for induction and long-term treatment. Until recently, FAEs were only licensed (for the psoriasis indication) in Germany, but were imported to many other European countries, such as The Netherlands, UK, Ireland, Austria and Italy, for the treatment of psoriasis. In 2017, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved Skilarence((R)) , a new oral formulation of DMF, for the treatment of adult patients with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis in need of systemic therapy. Skilarence only contains DMF and is the first FAE for the treatment of psoriasis that has been approved by the EMA. This approval has given rise to a new oral treatment option for patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis across Europe. Here, we report the results of an expert meeting which was convened to deliver clinician-agreed consensus and real-world guidance on the clinical use of DMF in moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Guidance on appropriate patient selection, DMF dosage considerations, monitoring and side-effect management is offered based upon available evidence and collective real-world clinical experience.
30238510	Dimethyl Fumarate	Proteinuria	0	0	0	0		Clinical use of dimethyl fumarate in moderate-to-severe plaque-type psoriasis: a European expert consensus.	Fumaric acid esters (FAEs) are a group of small molecules that were first investigated for the treatment of psoriasis in 1959. The first fumarate-based drug - Fumaderm((R)) - was approved in Germany in 1994 for severe psoriasis and then in 2008, the label was expanded to include moderate psoriasis. Fumaderm is a combination of different FAEs: dimethyl fumarate (DMF), which is regarded as the main active component, plus calcium, magnesium and zinc salts of monoethyl fumarate (MEF). FAEs are the most frequently used first-line systemic psoriasis treatment in Germany, with an overall treatment experience comprising more than 220 000 patient-years. FAEs have demonstrated good, sustained clinical efficacy with an acceptable safety profile for the long-term treatment of patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis. Indeed, the European S3-Guideline on the systemic treatment of Psoriasis vulgaris recommends FAEs for induction and long-term treatment. Until recently, FAEs were only licensed (for the psoriasis indication) in Germany, but were imported to many other European countries, such as The Netherlands, UK, Ireland, Austria and Italy, for the treatment of psoriasis. In 2017, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved Skilarence((R)) , a new oral formulation of DMF, for the treatment of adult patients with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis in need of systemic therapy. Skilarence only contains DMF and is the first FAE for the treatment of psoriasis that has been approved by the EMA. This approval has given rise to a new oral treatment option for patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis across Europe. Here, we report the results of an expert meeting which was convened to deliver clinician-agreed consensus and real-world guidance on the clinical use of DMF in moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Guidance on appropriate patient selection, DMF dosage considerations, monitoring and side-effect management is offered based upon available evidence and collective real-world clinical experience.
30085947	Venlafaxine Hydrochloride	Hyperhidrosis	1	0	0	0		Bupropion Switch for a Depressed Patient With Venlafaxine-Associated Night Sweats.	
30078546	Docetaxel	Nail Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Integrated podiatrist care for prostate cancer patients treated with docetaxel: Feasibility and results].	BACKGROUND: Docetaxel is frequently used for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer patients. Nail toxicity is a commonly described side effect, but no precise recommendation exists concerning its management. We experimented the integration of a podiatrist in routine cancer care. METHODS: Patients having received docetaxel for a metastatic prostate cancer since the arrival of the podiatrist were studied. RESULTS: Fifty-six patients were included, half had docetaxel-induced nail toxicity and 18 were referred to the podiatrist. The integration of the podiatrist in routine care was feasible and allowed characterizing nail toxicity. The main lesions observed were non-coagulated nail hematomas, coagulated nail hematomas and onycholysis. This experience led to propose an integrated care for docetaxel-induced nail toxicity. CONCLUSION: The integration of podiatrist care is feasible in routine cancer care and can help improving the management of docetaxel-induced nail toxicity in metastatic prostate cancer patients.
30078546	Docetaxel	Onycholysis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Integrated podiatrist care for prostate cancer patients treated with docetaxel: Feasibility and results].	BACKGROUND: Docetaxel is frequently used for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer patients. Nail toxicity is a commonly described side effect, but no precise recommendation exists concerning its management. We experimented the integration of a podiatrist in routine cancer care. METHODS: Patients having received docetaxel for a metastatic prostate cancer since the arrival of the podiatrist were studied. RESULTS: Fifty-six patients were included, half had docetaxel-induced nail toxicity and 18 were referred to the podiatrist. The integration of the podiatrist in routine care was feasible and allowed characterizing nail toxicity. The main lesions observed were non-coagulated nail hematomas, coagulated nail hematomas and onycholysis. This experience led to propose an integrated care for docetaxel-induced nail toxicity. CONCLUSION: The integration of podiatrist care is feasible in routine cancer care and can help improving the management of docetaxel-induced nail toxicity in metastatic prostate cancer patients.
29746335	Paliperidone Palmitate	Pulmonary Embolism	1	0	0	0		Case Report: Paliperidone Palmitate, But Not Aripiprazole, as a Possible Risk Factor for Pulmonary Embolism.	
29673963	Abatacept	Myocardial Infarction	0	0	0	0		No difference in cardiovascular risk of tocilizumab versus abatacept for rheumatoid arthritis: A multi-database cohort study.	OBJECTIVES: While tocilizumab may increase serum lipid levels, recent studies do not suggest a link between tocilizumab use and clinical cardiovascular risk in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: To compare cardiovascular safety of tocilizumab with abatacept, we conducted a cohort study using data from Medicare (2010-2013), IMS PharMetrics (2011-2014) and MarketScan (2011-6/2015). RA patients aged >/=18 years who newly started tocilizumab or abatacept entered the cohort on the day of their first use of tocilizumab or abatacept after a continuous enrollment period for >/=365 days. The primary outcome was a composite cardiovascular endpoint of hospitalization for myocardial infarction or stroke. To control for more than 60 confounders, tocilizumab starters were propensity score (PS)-matched to abatacept starters with a variable ratio of 1:3 within each database. A fixed-effects model combined database-specific hazard ratios (HR). RESULTS: We included 6237 tocilizumab starters PS-matched to 14,685 abatacept starters in all three databases. Mean age was 72 years in Medicare, 51 in PharMetrics and 53 in MarketScan. The incidence rate of the composite cardiovascular events per 100 person-years ranged from 0.37 (PharMetrics) to 1.64 (Medicare) in the tocilizumab group and from 0.59 (PharMetrics) to 1.69 (Medicare) in the abatacept group. The risk of the composite cardiovascular events was similar between the two groups across all three databases, with a combined HR of 0.82 (95% CI: 0.55-1.22) in tocilizumab versus abatacept starters. CONCLUSIONS: This multi-database cohort study found no difference in the risk of cardiovascular events in RA patients who newly started tocilizumab versus abatacept.
30608393	Guanine	Liver Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		High percentage atypical hepatocellular carcinoma in chronic hepatitis B patients treated with nucleos(t)ide analogs.	Nucleos(t)ide analogs are used for preventing liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B patients, but the risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in these patients remain unclear. We designed this retrospective cohort study, the aim is to determine the risk factors for HCC development and its image presentation under nucleos(t)ide analogs treatment.In this study, patients were treated with lamivudine (LAM), entecavir 0.5 mg (ETV), or telbivudine (LdT), and followed-up for at least 2 years to detect HCC and its presentation. Assessment of the risk factors for HCC included age, sex, HBeAg, viral load, liver cirrhosis, current and previous medications, and liver function tests.Totally, 396 patients were recruited, and 18 patients developed HCC. The mean time from the treatment to HCC development was 28.5 +/- 16.7 months. The clinical characteristics in HCC and no-HCC groups showed significant differences among age (52.8 +/- 6.1 vs 47.1 +/- 12.6 years, P <.01), baseline alanine transaminase (ALT) levels (161.4 +/- 177.3 vs 361.7 +/- 496.3, P <.01), and baseline liver cirrhosis (72.2% vs 29.9%, P <.01). In patients aged >/=45 years, the hazard ratio of HCC was 10.2 and liver cirrhosis was 4.1. Majority of HCCs developed in the right liver (14/18), were single numbered (13/18), had tumor size about 1.9 +/- 0.7 cm, were classified as T1 (14/18, TNM staging), and the atypical image occupied 88% of the HCC cases.The patients aged >==45 years on long-term nucleos(t)ide analog therapy, and with baseline liver cirrhosis were at a high risk of HCC. Regular alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) assessment and image study of these patients are the gold standards for early HCC detection in patients with high percentage atypical HCC appearances.
30608393	Telbivudine	Carcinoma, Hepatocellular	1	0	0	0		High percentage atypical hepatocellular carcinoma in chronic hepatitis B patients treated with nucleos(t)ide analogs.	Nucleos(t)ide analogs are used for preventing liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B patients, but the risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in these patients remain unclear. We designed this retrospective cohort study, the aim is to determine the risk factors for HCC development and its image presentation under nucleos(t)ide analogs treatment.In this study, patients were treated with lamivudine (LAM), entecavir 0.5 mg (ETV), or telbivudine (LdT), and followed-up for at least 2 years to detect HCC and its presentation. Assessment of the risk factors for HCC included age, sex, HBeAg, viral load, liver cirrhosis, current and previous medications, and liver function tests.Totally, 396 patients were recruited, and 18 patients developed HCC. The mean time from the treatment to HCC development was 28.5 +/- 16.7 months. The clinical characteristics in HCC and no-HCC groups showed significant differences among age (52.8 +/- 6.1 vs 47.1 +/- 12.6 years, P <.01), baseline alanine transaminase (ALT) levels (161.4 +/- 177.3 vs 361.7 +/- 496.3, P <.01), and baseline liver cirrhosis (72.2% vs 29.9%, P <.01). In patients aged >/=45 years, the hazard ratio of HCC was 10.2 and liver cirrhosis was 4.1. Majority of HCCs developed in the right liver (14/18), were single numbered (13/18), had tumor size about 1.9 +/- 0.7 cm, were classified as T1 (14/18, TNM staging), and the atypical image occupied 88% of the HCC cases.The patients aged >==45 years on long-term nucleos(t)ide analog therapy, and with baseline liver cirrhosis were at a high risk of HCC. Regular alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) assessment and image study of these patients are the gold standards for early HCC detection in patients with high percentage atypical HCC appearances.
30608393	Telbivudine	Liver Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		High percentage atypical hepatocellular carcinoma in chronic hepatitis B patients treated with nucleos(t)ide analogs.	Nucleos(t)ide analogs are used for preventing liver cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B patients, but the risk factors of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in these patients remain unclear. We designed this retrospective cohort study, the aim is to determine the risk factors for HCC development and its image presentation under nucleos(t)ide analogs treatment.In this study, patients were treated with lamivudine (LAM), entecavir 0.5 mg (ETV), or telbivudine (LdT), and followed-up for at least 2 years to detect HCC and its presentation. Assessment of the risk factors for HCC included age, sex, HBeAg, viral load, liver cirrhosis, current and previous medications, and liver function tests.Totally, 396 patients were recruited, and 18 patients developed HCC. The mean time from the treatment to HCC development was 28.5 +/- 16.7 months. The clinical characteristics in HCC and no-HCC groups showed significant differences among age (52.8 +/- 6.1 vs 47.1 +/- 12.6 years, P <.01), baseline alanine transaminase (ALT) levels (161.4 +/- 177.3 vs 361.7 +/- 496.3, P <.01), and baseline liver cirrhosis (72.2% vs 29.9%, P <.01). In patients aged >/=45 years, the hazard ratio of HCC was 10.2 and liver cirrhosis was 4.1. Majority of HCCs developed in the right liver (14/18), were single numbered (13/18), had tumor size about 1.9 +/- 0.7 cm, were classified as T1 (14/18, TNM staging), and the atypical image occupied 88% of the HCC cases.The patients aged >==45 years on long-term nucleos(t)ide analog therapy, and with baseline liver cirrhosis were at a high risk of HCC. Regular alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) assessment and image study of these patients are the gold standards for early HCC detection in patients with high percentage atypical HCC appearances.
30575489	Zoledronic Acid	Acute-Phase Reaction	0	0	0	0		Fracture Prevention with Zoledronate in Older Women with Osteopenia.	BACKGROUND: Bisphosphonates prevent fractures in patients with osteoporosis, but their efficacy in women with osteopenia is unknown. Most fractures in postmenopausal women occur in those with osteopenia, so therapies that are effective in women with osteopenia are needed. METHODS: We conducted a 6-year, double-blind trial involving 2000 women with osteopenia (defined by a T score of -1.0 to -2.5 at either the total hip or the femoral neck on either side) who were 65 years of age or older. Participants were randomly assigned to receive four infusions of either zoledronate at a dose of 5 mg (zoledronate group) or normal saline (placebo group) at 18-month intervals. A dietary calcium intake of 1 g per day was advised, but calcium supplements were not provided. Participants who were not already taking vitamin D supplements received cholecalciferol before the trial began (a single dose of 2.5 mg) and during the trial (1.25 mg per month). The primary end point was the time to first occurrence of a nonvertebral or vertebral fragility fracture. RESULTS: At baseline, the mean (+/-SD) age was 71+/-5 years, the T score at the femoral neck was -1.6+/-0.5, and the median 10-year risk of hip fracture was 2.3%. A fragility fracture occurred in 190 women in the placebo group and in 122 women in the zoledronate group (hazard ratio with zoledronate, 0.63; 95% confidence interval, 0.50 to 0.79; P<0.001). The number of women that would need to be treated to prevent the occurrence of a fracture in 1 woman was 15. As compared with the placebo group, women who received zoledronate had a lower risk of nonvertebral fragility fractures (hazard ratio, 0.66; P=0.001), symptomatic fractures (hazard ratio, 0.73; P=0.003), vertebral fractures (odds ratio, 0.45; P=0.002), and height loss (P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The risk of nonvertebral or vertebral fragility fractures was significantly lower in women with osteopenia who received zoledronate than in women who received placebo. (Funded by the Health Research Council of New Zealand; Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, ACTRN12609000593235 .).
30558522	Deferasirox	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Long-term safety and efficacy of deferasirox in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, aplastic anemia and other rare anemia in Taiwan.	OBJECTIVE: Patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), aplastic anemia (AA) or other rare anemia require chronic blood transfusions which can lead to iron overload and subsequent excess iron-mediated complications. Intensive iron chelation with deferasirox could remove excess iron and can alleviate these events; however, the long-term safety and efficacy in Chinese population are not clearly characterized. This study examined the long-term efficacy and safety of deferasirox in a real-world setting in Taiwan. METHODS: This observational, non-interventional, single-arm, multi-center, phase IV study was designed to collect the safety and clinical information about patients who were treated with deferasirox according to investigator's judgment and in accordance with the general clinical practice. RESULTS: From 2009 to 2011, patients with MDS (N = 38), AA (N = 23), and other rare anemias (N = 18) were enrolled. The mean deferasirox exposure was 17.7 +/- 4.02 mg/kg/day. The most common drug-related AEs were skin disorders (32.9%) and gastrointestinal disorders (30.4%), while grade 3-4 AEs were rare (5.1%). In the overall patient population, deferasirox effectively decreased serum ferritin levels at 1 year (P = 0.0154) and 3 years (P = 0.0424) from the baseline. Upon the use of deferasirox, 32.9% patients showed erythroid response and 16.7% patients had platelet response. CONCLUSIONS: For patients with MDS, AA, and other rare anemias, the AEs observed in this 3-year surveillance study with deferasirox were mostly mild or moderate. In addition, the hematological response rate was higher than that in the EPIC study, which primarily enrolled Caucasian patients.
30558522	Deferasirox	Skin Diseases	0	0	0	0		Long-term safety and efficacy of deferasirox in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, aplastic anemia and other rare anemia in Taiwan.	OBJECTIVE: Patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), aplastic anemia (AA) or other rare anemia require chronic blood transfusions which can lead to iron overload and subsequent excess iron-mediated complications. Intensive iron chelation with deferasirox could remove excess iron and can alleviate these events; however, the long-term safety and efficacy in Chinese population are not clearly characterized. This study examined the long-term efficacy and safety of deferasirox in a real-world setting in Taiwan. METHODS: This observational, non-interventional, single-arm, multi-center, phase IV study was designed to collect the safety and clinical information about patients who were treated with deferasirox according to investigator's judgment and in accordance with the general clinical practice. RESULTS: From 2009 to 2011, patients with MDS (N = 38), AA (N = 23), and other rare anemias (N = 18) were enrolled. The mean deferasirox exposure was 17.7 +/- 4.02 mg/kg/day. The most common drug-related AEs were skin disorders (32.9%) and gastrointestinal disorders (30.4%), while grade 3-4 AEs were rare (5.1%). In the overall patient population, deferasirox effectively decreased serum ferritin levels at 1 year (P = 0.0154) and 3 years (P = 0.0424) from the baseline. Upon the use of deferasirox, 32.9% patients showed erythroid response and 16.7% patients had platelet response. CONCLUSIONS: For patients with MDS, AA, and other rare anemias, the AEs observed in this 3-year surveillance study with deferasirox were mostly mild or moderate. In addition, the hematological response rate was higher than that in the EPIC study, which primarily enrolled Caucasian patients.
30257437	Crizotinib	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Renal Injury during Long-Term Crizotinib Therapy.	Crizotinib is highly effective against anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive and c-ros oncogen1-positive non-small cell lung cancer. Renal dysfunction is associated with crizotinib therapy but the mechanism is unknown. Here, we report a case of anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive non-small cell lung cancer showing multiple cysts and dysfunction of the kidneys during crizotinib administration. We also present results demonstrating that long-term crizotinib treatment induces fibrosis and dysfunction of the kidneys by activating the tumor necrosis factor-alpha/nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathway. In conclusion, this study shows the renal detrimental effects of crizotinib, suggesting the need of careful monitoring of renal function during crizotinib therapy.
30257437	Crizotinib	Kidney Diseases, Cystic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Renal Injury during Long-Term Crizotinib Therapy.	Crizotinib is highly effective against anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive and c-ros oncogen1-positive non-small cell lung cancer. Renal dysfunction is associated with crizotinib therapy but the mechanism is unknown. Here, we report a case of anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive non-small cell lung cancer showing multiple cysts and dysfunction of the kidneys during crizotinib administration. We also present results demonstrating that long-term crizotinib treatment induces fibrosis and dysfunction of the kidneys by activating the tumor necrosis factor-alpha/nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathway. In conclusion, this study shows the renal detrimental effects of crizotinib, suggesting the need of careful monitoring of renal function during crizotinib therapy.
30184311	Prednisone	Linear IgA Bullous Dermatosis	1	0	0	0		Non-infectious diffuse vesiculobullous rash in a pancreas and renal transplant recipient.	Solid organ transplant patients are well established to be at risk of herpes simplex virus and varicella zoster virus infection and reactivation. We present a case of a 41-year-old woman with a history of pancreas and renal transplant who presented with what appeared to be disseminated herpes simplex virus or varicella zoster virus induced rash, but who was ultimately diagnosed and treated as linear IgA bullous dermatosis. This case alerts physicians to other non-infectious dermatoses as a cause of vesiculobullous rash in solid organ transplant patients.
30133802	Hydroxychloroquine	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Therapeutic efficacy and adverse events of hydroxychloroquine administration in Japanese systemic/cutaneous lupus erythematosus patients.	
29807852	Voriconazole	Mucormycosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Voriconazole associated mucormycosis in a patient with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia and hematopoietic stem cell transplant failure: A case report.	The patients with hematologic malignancies and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) recipients are at high risk for invasive fungal diseases (IFDs) mainly due to the severe and prolonged neutropenia related to high-dose chemotherapy. Voriconazole prophylaxis is recommended for possible IFDs. Mucormycosis is a fulminant infection, which may occur after voriconazole prophylaxis for invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised hosts. Here, we report mucormycosis after 4 months of voriconazole prophylaxis in a young patient with relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia and hematopoietic stem cell transplant failure and discuss the clinical manifestation, imaging, laboratory findings and therapeutic regimens. Clinician's awareness of this entity and timely diagnosis using conventional and molecular methods are the promising approach for the management of this devastating infection.
29559189	Ipilimumab	Acute Lung Injury	1	0	0	0		Late-occurring toxicity induced by an immune checkpoint blockade in adjuvant treatment of a stage III melanoma patient.	
29559189	Ipilimumab	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		Late-occurring toxicity induced by an immune checkpoint blockade in adjuvant treatment of a stage III melanoma patient.	
29477367	Ipilimumab	Gastrointestinal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Dose-dependent toxicity of ipilimumab in metastatic melanoma.	
29477367	Nivolumab	Gastrointestinal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Dose-dependent toxicity of ipilimumab in metastatic melanoma.	
29094638	Cerium	Carcinogenesis	1	0	0	0		Synergistic role of nanoceria on the ability of tobacco smoke to induce carcinogenic hallmarks in lung epithelial cells.	AIM: Since controversial results have been obtained in studies dealing with nanoceria usefulness in biomedical applications, the transforming effects of long-term exposure to nanoceria in lung epithelial cells, alone or together with cigarette smoke condensate (CSC), were evaluated. MATERIALS & METHODS: In vitro cell transformation techniques were used to study several hallmarks of carcinogenesis. Morphology, cell proliferation, gene expression, cell migration, anchorage-independent cell growth and cell secretome were analyzed. RESULTS & CONCLUSION: Data evidence no transforming ability of nanoceria, but support a synergistic role on CSC's transforming ability. A more noticeable spindle-like phenotype, increased proliferation rate, higher degree of differentiation status dysregulation, higher migration capacity, increased anchorage-independent cell growth and higher levels of MMP-9 and cell growth promoting capability, were observed. In addition, nanoceria co-exposure exacerbates the expression of FRA-1.
29094638	Cerium	Cell Transformation, Neoplastic	1	0	0	0		Synergistic role of nanoceria on the ability of tobacco smoke to induce carcinogenic hallmarks in lung epithelial cells.	AIM: Since controversial results have been obtained in studies dealing with nanoceria usefulness in biomedical applications, the transforming effects of long-term exposure to nanoceria in lung epithelial cells, alone or together with cigarette smoke condensate (CSC), were evaluated. MATERIALS & METHODS: In vitro cell transformation techniques were used to study several hallmarks of carcinogenesis. Morphology, cell proliferation, gene expression, cell migration, anchorage-independent cell growth and cell secretome were analyzed. RESULTS & CONCLUSION: Data evidence no transforming ability of nanoceria, but support a synergistic role on CSC's transforming ability. A more noticeable spindle-like phenotype, increased proliferation rate, higher degree of differentiation status dysregulation, higher migration capacity, increased anchorage-independent cell growth and higher levels of MMP-9 and cell growth promoting capability, were observed. In addition, nanoceria co-exposure exacerbates the expression of FRA-1.
28934061	Meningococcal Vaccines	Bell Palsy	0	0	0	1		Current safety issues with quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccines.	Invasive meningococcal disease, although rare, can present as sudden, life-threatening disease with high risk of mortality or severe long-term sequelae. The main prevention strategy for invasive meningococcal disease in the United States is the routine vaccination of adolescents and other persons at increased risk of meningococcal disease with quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccines. Two such vaccines are currently licensed and available in the United States, Menactra(R) (Sanofi Pasteur) and Menveo(R) (GlaxoSmithKline), and usage in the adolescent population has steadily increased since their introduction. Although early reports raised concerns about a possible association of Menactra with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a comprehensive safety review determined that if such risk existed it was no more than 0.66 cases per 1 million vaccinations. More recently, a study found an elevated risk of Bell's palsy when Menveo was administered concomitantly with other vaccines but no association was found when the vaccine was administered alone. In this commentary, we describe the current state of knowledge with respect to the safety of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccines, and we identify potential areas for safety research for these vaccines.
28697686	Bendamustine Hydrochloride	Cytomegalovirus Infections	1	0	0	0		Cytomegalovirus antigenemia and end-organ disease in Japanese patients treated with bendamustine.	
30290786	Cetuximab	Stomatitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Oral mucositis associated with anti-EGFR therapy in colorectal cancer: single institutional retrospective cohort study.	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis impairs the quality of life. The difference in severity of oral mucositis between different anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antibodies combined with cytotoxic drugs in colorectal cancer is unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in oral mucositis between panitumumab (Pmab) and cetuximab (Cmab) combined with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study. A total of 75 colorectal cancer outpatients treated with an anti-EGFR antibody combined with FOLFOX, FOLFIRI, or 5-FU/leucovorin as the first- to third-line treatment were included. The primary endpoint was the incidence of grade 2-3 oral mucositis. The secondary endpoint was the time to onset of oral mucositis. We also compared the incidence of toxicities of interest, skin toxicity, hypomagnesaemia and neutropenia, and time to treatment failure (TTF) between the two groups. RESULTS: Thirty-two patients treated with Pmab and 43 patients treated with Cmab were evaluated. Patient characteristics were similar between the two groups. The incidence of grade 2-3 oral mucositis was significantly higher with Pmab than with Cmab (31.3% vs 9.3%, P < 0.05). Moreover, the incidence of grade 3 oral mucositis was significantly higher in patients treated with Pmab (18.8% vs 0%, P < 0.01). The mean (SD) cycles to onset of the worst oral mucositis was 3.0 (2.9) in the Pmab group and 2.3 (1.7) in the Cmab group (P = 0.29). Oral mucositis was characterized by glossitis and cheilitis. The incidences of other toxicities were the following (Pmab vs Cmab): grade 2-3 skin toxicity: 68.8% vs 74.4% (P = 0.61), grade 2-3 hypomagnesaemia: 9.3% vs 7.0% (P = 1.00), grade 3-4 neutropenia: 28.1% vs 37.2% (P = 0.46). The median TTF was not significantly different, i.e., 223 days vs 200 days (P = 0.39) for Pmab vs Cmab. CONCLUSIONS: Pmab-based chemotherapy resulted in significantly higher grades of oral mucositis compared with Cmab-based chemotherapy. The oral condition should be monitored carefully and early supportive care should be provided for patients treated with Pmab-based chemotherapy.
30270705	Linezolid	Red-Cell Aplasia, Pure	1	1	0	0	0.0	Linezolid-induced pure red cell aplasia: a case report and literature review.	Linezolid (LZD) is the first oxazolidinone with excellent safety and efficacy profiles against refractory infections caused by gram-positive organisms. Hematological toxicities such as thrombocytopenia, anemia, and leukocytopenia are common in LZD therapy; however, LZD-induced pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) is rare. An 83-year-old man diagnosed with pleural empyema caused by Staphylococcus aureus received LZD after developing resistance to multiple antibiotics. Although his infection-related symptoms were improved by LZD, progressive anemia was noticed after LZD therapy was initiated. Eight weeks after LZD administration began, his hemoglobin level was 5.7 g/dL and reticulocyte proportion was 0.36%, while his white blood cell and platelet counts remained unchanged since admission. Bone marrow examination revealed markedly decreased erythropoiesis with cytoplasmic vacuolation of erythroblasts. Anemia resolved by 14 days after cessation of LZD. It is important to increase the awareness among clinicians about the potential for the hematological effects associated with LZD, particularly for older patients with pre-existing anemia and treatment courses longer than 14 days. To detect bone marrow suppression, including PRCA, we suggest monitoring the complete blood count and reticulocyte count periodically in patients receiving long-term LZD therapy.
30019366	Aripiprazole	Acneiform Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Oral Isotretinoin for the treatment of Aripiprazol-induced acneiform rash.	Acneiform rash is a commonly reported side effect to certain types of medications, including antipsychotic agents. Its clinical presentation consists mainly of papulopustular lesions. Other types of lesions, such as nodular or cystic, can also be observed. Body distribution of the lesions follows a similar pattern to acne vulgaris. Depending on the severity of the case, drug-induced acne may be treated in different ways. In mild cases, the use of topical antibiotics and retinoids in combination is usually effective. With more severe forms, it may be necessary to add oral antibiotics, such as tetracyclines, but a good response is not always achieved. Identification of the drug responsible for the side-effect is mandatory in refractory eruptions. Herein, we present the case of an Aripiprazole-induced acneiform rash successfully treated with oral Isotretinoin. The treatment was effective and well tolerated and there was no need to discontinue the psychopharmacological medication. This is the first study to report this modality of treatment.
29958500	Benzoates	Venous Thromboembolism	0	0	0	0		Thrombopoietin mimetics for systemic lupus erythematosus with antiphospholipid antibodies should be discussed separately.	
29879147	Oxaliplatin	Dilatation, Pathologic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Interrogation of transcriptomic changes associated with drug-induced hepatic sinusoidal dilatation in colorectal cancer.	Drug-related sinusoidal dilatation (SD) is a common form of hepatotoxicity associated with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy used prior to resection of colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). Recently, hepatic SD has also been associated with anti-delta like 4 (DLL4) cancer therapies targeting the NOTCH pathway. To investigate the hypothesis that NOTCH signaling plays an important role in drug-induced SD, gene expression changes were examined in livers from anti-DLL4 and oxaliplatin-induced SD in non-human primate (NHP) and patients, respectively. Putative mechanistic biomarkers of bevacizumab (bev)-mediated protection against oxaliplatin-induced SD were also investigated. RNA was extracted from whole liver sections or centrilobular regions by laser-capture microdissection (LCM) obtained from NHP administered anti-DLL4 fragment antigen-binding (F(ab')2 or patients with CRLM receiving oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy with or without bev. mRNA expression was quantified using high-throughput real-time quantitative PCR. Significance analysis was used to identify genes with differential expression patterns (false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05). Eleven (CCL2, CCND1, EFNB2, ERG, ICAM1, IL16, LFNG, NOTCH1, NOTCH4, PRDX1, and TGFB1) and six (CDH5, EFNB2, HES1, IL16, MIK67, HES1 and VWF) candidate genes were differentially expressed in the liver of anti-DLL4- and oxaliplatin-induced SD, respectively. Addition of bev to oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy resulted in differential changes in hepatic CDH5, HEY1, IL16, JAG1, MMP9, NOTCH4 and TIMP1 expression. This work implicates NOTCH and IL16 pathways in the pathogenesis of drug-induced SD and further explains the hepato-protective effect of bev in oxaliplatin-induced SD observed in CRLM patients.
29879147	Oxaliplatin	Neovascularization, Pathologic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Interrogation of transcriptomic changes associated with drug-induced hepatic sinusoidal dilatation in colorectal cancer.	Drug-related sinusoidal dilatation (SD) is a common form of hepatotoxicity associated with oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy used prior to resection of colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). Recently, hepatic SD has also been associated with anti-delta like 4 (DLL4) cancer therapies targeting the NOTCH pathway. To investigate the hypothesis that NOTCH signaling plays an important role in drug-induced SD, gene expression changes were examined in livers from anti-DLL4 and oxaliplatin-induced SD in non-human primate (NHP) and patients, respectively. Putative mechanistic biomarkers of bevacizumab (bev)-mediated protection against oxaliplatin-induced SD were also investigated. RNA was extracted from whole liver sections or centrilobular regions by laser-capture microdissection (LCM) obtained from NHP administered anti-DLL4 fragment antigen-binding (F(ab')2 or patients with CRLM receiving oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy with or without bev. mRNA expression was quantified using high-throughput real-time quantitative PCR. Significance analysis was used to identify genes with differential expression patterns (false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05). Eleven (CCL2, CCND1, EFNB2, ERG, ICAM1, IL16, LFNG, NOTCH1, NOTCH4, PRDX1, and TGFB1) and six (CDH5, EFNB2, HES1, IL16, MIK67, HES1 and VWF) candidate genes were differentially expressed in the liver of anti-DLL4- and oxaliplatin-induced SD, respectively. Addition of bev to oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy resulted in differential changes in hepatic CDH5, HEY1, IL16, JAG1, MMP9, NOTCH4 and TIMP1 expression. This work implicates NOTCH and IL16 pathways in the pathogenesis of drug-induced SD and further explains the hepato-protective effect of bev in oxaliplatin-induced SD observed in CRLM patients.
29679669	Verteporfin	Choroidal Neovascularization	0	0	0	0		N-acetylcysteine protects against chorioretinal damage induced by photodynamic therapy for experimental choroidal neovascularization in a rat model.	PURPOSE: We explored the protective effects of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on chorioretinal damage induced by photodynamic therapy (PDT) in an experimental rat model of choroidal neovascularization (CNV). METHODS: Experimental CNV was induced by an argon laser in 24 Brown Norway rats 7 days prior to PDT. Commencing 1 day after CNV induction, 0.5 mL of NAC was orally administered daily to the NAC + group (12 rats), and 0.5 mL of normal saline to the NAC- group (12 rats). Diode laser treatment was delivered for 42 s (total energy, 25 J/cm2) to the left eye prior to verteporfin infusion (PDT-) and to the right eye 15-20 min after such infusion (PDT+). Fluorescein angiography was performed just prior to PDT and enucleation to evaluate fluorescein leakage and CNV closure. We compared the CNV thickness, PDT-induced apoptosis [evaluated via terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)], fluorescein angiographic data, and extents of immunohistofluorescent staining for cleaved caspase-3 and superoxide dismutase (SOD) between the two groups. RESULTS: Fourteen days after diode laser treatment, the CNV closure rate was significantly higher in the PDT-treated than the control group. However, the CNV closure rates did not differ significantly between the NAC- and NAC + groups. The TUNEL activity (a measure of PDT-induced apoptosis) of retinal cells was higher in the NAC-/PDT + than the NAC+/PDT + group at 1, 3, 7, and 14 days. The cleaved caspase-3 and SOD levels were higher in the NAC-/PDT + than the NAC+/PDT + group at 3 and 7 days. CONCLUSIONS: PDT triggers oxygen radical-induced injury to, and apoptosis in, the retina. NAC may reduce PDT-induced damage to the retina without compromising the therapeutic efficacy of CNV.
29328996	Methotrexate	Polyneuropathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute and sub-acute neurological toxicity in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Eighty percent of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survive with current treatments. Neurotoxicity is an infrequent adverse event. We describe clinical presentations of neurological toxicity, phases of treatment when these adverse events were more frequent and patients ́ outcome. From January-1995 to December-2015, 1379 ALL cases were admitted. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed in 49 patients (3.6%) and classified according to neurological syndromes. Medical records, laboratory-tests and images were reviewed. The diagnosed syndromes were: a) Methotrexate-leukoencephalopathy (MLE) (35.4%); b) Cerebral-venous-sinus thrombosis following L-Asparaginase administration (26.5%); c) Vincristine-induced-vocal-cord paralysis (VVCP) (14.2%); d) Stroke-associated vasospasm (14%), after high-dose methotrexate e) Severe polyneuropathy (6.1%); f) Methotrexate myelopathy (2%); and g) Pseudotumor-cerebri (2%) associated with corticosteroid therapy. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed during induction in 55% of cases. We conclude that MLE was the most frequent syndrome. VVCP was observed in infants and Down patients. Seizure was the most common symptom and toxicity occurred mainly during induction phase.
29328996	Methotrexate	Vocal Cord Paralysis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute and sub-acute neurological toxicity in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Eighty percent of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survive with current treatments. Neurotoxicity is an infrequent adverse event. We describe clinical presentations of neurological toxicity, phases of treatment when these adverse events were more frequent and patients ́ outcome. From January-1995 to December-2015, 1379 ALL cases were admitted. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed in 49 patients (3.6%) and classified according to neurological syndromes. Medical records, laboratory-tests and images were reviewed. The diagnosed syndromes were: a) Methotrexate-leukoencephalopathy (MLE) (35.4%); b) Cerebral-venous-sinus thrombosis following L-Asparaginase administration (26.5%); c) Vincristine-induced-vocal-cord paralysis (VVCP) (14.2%); d) Stroke-associated vasospasm (14%), after high-dose methotrexate e) Severe polyneuropathy (6.1%); f) Methotrexate myelopathy (2%); and g) Pseudotumor-cerebri (2%) associated with corticosteroid therapy. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed during induction in 55% of cases. We conclude that MLE was the most frequent syndrome. VVCP was observed in infants and Down patients. Seizure was the most common symptom and toxicity occurred mainly during induction phase.
29328996	Vincristine	Sinus Thrombosis, Intracranial	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute and sub-acute neurological toxicity in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	Eighty percent of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survive with current treatments. Neurotoxicity is an infrequent adverse event. We describe clinical presentations of neurological toxicity, phases of treatment when these adverse events were more frequent and patients ́ outcome. From January-1995 to December-2015, 1379 ALL cases were admitted. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed in 49 patients (3.6%) and classified according to neurological syndromes. Medical records, laboratory-tests and images were reviewed. The diagnosed syndromes were: a) Methotrexate-leukoencephalopathy (MLE) (35.4%); b) Cerebral-venous-sinus thrombosis following L-Asparaginase administration (26.5%); c) Vincristine-induced-vocal-cord paralysis (VVCP) (14.2%); d) Stroke-associated vasospasm (14%), after high-dose methotrexate e) Severe polyneuropathy (6.1%); f) Methotrexate myelopathy (2%); and g) Pseudotumor-cerebri (2%) associated with corticosteroid therapy. Neurotoxicity was diagnosed during induction in 55% of cases. We conclude that MLE was the most frequent syndrome. VVCP was observed in infants and Down patients. Seizure was the most common symptom and toxicity occurred mainly during induction phase.
29327400	Exenatide	Nausea	0	1	0	0		A vitamin B12 conjugate of exendin-4 improves glucose tolerance without associated nausea or hypophagia in rodents.	AIMS: While pharmacological glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists are FDA-approved for treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and obesity, a major side effect is nausea/malaise. We recently developed a conjugate of vitamin B12 (B12) bound to the GLP-1R agonist exendin-4 (Ex4), which displays enhanced proteolytic stability and retention of GLP-1R agonism. Here, we evaluate whether the conjugate (B12-Ex4) can improve glucose tolerance without producing anorexia and malaise. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated the effects of systemic B12-Ex4 and unconjugated Ex4 on food intake and body weight change, oral glucose tolerance and nausea/malaise in male rats, and on intraperitoneal glucose tolerance in mice. To evaluate whether differences in the profile of effects of B12-Ex4 vs unconjugated Ex4 are the result of altered CNS penetrance, rats received systemic injections of fluorescein-Ex4 (Flex), Cy5-B12 or Cy5-B12-Ex4 and brain penetrance was evaluated using confocal microscopy. Uptake of systemically administered Cy5-B12-Ex4 in insulin-containing pancreatic beta cells was also examined. RESULTS: B12-Ex4 conjugate improves glucose tolerance, but does not elicit the malaise and anorexia produced by unconjugated Ex4. While Flex robustly penetrates into the brain (dorsal vagal complex, paraventricular hypothalamus), Cy5-B12 and Cy5-B12-Ex4 fluorescence were not observed centrally, supporting an absence of CNS penetrance, in line with observed reduction in CNS-associated Ex4 side effects. Cy5-B12-Ex4 colocalizes with insulin in the pancreas, suggesting direct pancreatic action as a potential mechanism underlying the hypoglycaemic effects of B12-Ex4. CONCLUSION: These novel findings highlight the potential clinical utility of B12-Ex4 conjugates as possible future T2DM therapeutics with reduced incidence of adverse effects.
29223794	Cocaine	Multiple Sclerosis	0	1	0	0		A new T2 lesion in a patient with the clinically isolated syndrome does not necessarily imply a conversion to multiple sclerosis.	"In the follow-up of patients with the clinically isolated syndrome, both clinical and MRI findings should be carefully evaluated by clinicians to avoid misinterpretation and inappropriate diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. We describe a case of a patient with a previous diagnosis of clinically isolated syndrome who developed a new asymptomatic brain lesion at the MRI follow-up. The careful evaluation of clinical history and radiological findings allowed the correct diagnosis of cocaine-associated ischemic stroke. Our case highlights that, in patients with the clinically isolated syndrome, the appearance of a new lesion on MRI does not necessarily imply a conversion to multiple sclerosis. Among ""better explanations"", ischemic lesions are of relevance and, in patients without typical risk factors for stroke, rarer causes such as cocaine assumption should be considered."
28918198	Insulin	Gait Disorders, Neurologic	1	0	0	0		Are we missing hypoglycaemia? Elderly patients with insulin-treated diabetes present to primary care frequently with non-specific symptoms associated with hypoglycaemia.	"INTRODUCTION: We assessed if patients with known hypoglycaemia present on other occasions with non-specific symptoms associated with (but not diagnosed as) hypoglycaemia, potentially representing missed hypoglycaemia. METHODS: 335 primary care records (5/2/12-4/2/13) from patients aged >65 (79 on insulin, 85 on sulphonylureas, 121 on metformin only, 50 without diabetes) were assessed for hypoglycaemia episodes and consultations with non-specific symptoms, ""hypo clues"". RESULTS: 27/79(34%) insulin-treated patients had >1 documented hypoglycaemia episode, compared to 4/85(5%) sulphonylurea-treated patients, 2/121(2%) metformin-only treated patients, and none without diabetes, p<0.001. ""Hypo clue"" consultations were common: 1.37 consultations/patient/year in insulin-treated patients, 0.98/patient/year in sulphonylurea-treated, 0.97/patient/year in metformin only-treated, and 0.78/patient/year in non-diabetic patients, p=0.34. In insulin-treated patients with documented hypoglycaemia, 20/27(74%) attended on another occasion with a ""hypo clue"" symptom, compared to 21/52(40%) of those without hypoglycaemia, p=0.008. No significant difference in the other treatment groups. Nausea, falls and unsteadiness were the most discriminatory symptoms: 7/33(21%) with hypoglycaemia attended on another occasion with nausea compared to 14/302(5%) without hypoglycaemia, p=0.002; 10/33(30%) vs 36/302(12%) with falls, p=0.007; and 5/33(15%) vs 13/302(4%) with unsteadiness, p=0.023. CONCLUSIONS: Non-specific symptoms are common in those >65 years. In insulin-treated patients at high hypoglycaemia risk, nausea, falls and unsteadiness should prompt consideration of hypoglycaemia."
28825374	Nivolumab	Anemia, Aplastic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nivolumab-induced aplastic anemia: A case report and literature review.	Directed immunotherapy at the programmed cell death-1 receptor has demonstrated efficacy in non-small-cell lung cancer, metastatic melanoma, and various other malignancies. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are innovative therapies producing some impressive clinical responses with a more manageable adverse effect profile when compared to traditional chemotherapy. The more common adverse effects associated with these agents include fatigue, rash, myalgia, pyrexia, and cough, but less common yet serious adverse effects have included immune-mediated colitis, pneumonitis, hepatitis, type 1 diabetes, and encephalitis. Here we present a case of a female patient with glioblastoma multiforme, who was treated with the programmed cell death-1 receptor inhibitor nivolumab and subsequently developed aplastic anemia.
30249290	Morphine	Tachycardia, Supraventricular	1	1	0	1	1.0	Morphine-induced supraventricular tachycardia in near-term fetus.	BACKGROUND: Fetal supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), characterized by fetal heart rate between 220 and 260 bpm, is a rare but most commonly encountered fetal cardiac arrhythmia in pregnancy that may be associated with adverse perinatal outcome. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 36/6 week near term fetus who presented morphine-induced SVT after maternal treatment of a renal colic. Following emergency cesarean section, the neonate had resolution of symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: The pathophysiology of morphine-related SVT, previously documented in experimental animal models, and for the first time reported in the human fetus, is presented.
30132304	Lanthanum	Hypercalcemia	0	0	0	0		Phosphate binders for preventing and treating chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD).	BACKGROUND: Phosphate binders are used to reduce positive phosphate balance and to lower serum phosphate levels for people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) with the aim to prevent progression of chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD). This is an update of a review first published in 2011. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to assess the benefits and harms of phosphate binders for people with CKD with particular reference to relevant biochemical end-points, musculoskeletal and cardiovascular morbidity, hospitalisation, and death. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 12 July 2018 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi-RCTs of adults with CKD of any GFR category comparing a phosphate binder to another phosphate binder, placebo or usual care to lower serum phosphate. Outcomes included all-cause and cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, adverse events, vascular calcification and bone fracture, and surrogates for such outcomes including serum phosphate, parathyroid hormone (PTH), and FGF23. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently selected studies for inclusion and extracted study data. We applied the Cochrane 'Risk of Bias' tool and used the GRADE process to assess evidence certainty. We estimated treatment effects using random-effects meta-analysis. Results were expressed as risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous outcomes together with 95% confidence intervals (CI) or mean differences (MD) or standardised MD (SMD) for continuous outcomes. MAIN RESULTS: We included 104 studies involving 13,744 adults. Sixty-nine new studies were added to this 2018 update.Most placebo or usual care controlled studies were among participants with CKD G2 to G5 not requiring dialysis (15/25 studies involving 1467 participants) while most head to head studies involved participants with CKD G5D treated with dialysis (74/81 studies involving 10,364 participants). Overall, seven studies compared sevelamer with placebo or usual care (667 participants), seven compared lanthanum to placebo or usual care (515 participants), three compared iron to placebo or usual care (422 participants), and four compared calcium to placebo or usual care (278 participants). Thirty studies compared sevelamer to calcium (5424 participants), and fourteen studies compared lanthanum to calcium (1690 participants). No study compared iron-based binders to calcium. The remaining studies evaluated comparisons between sevelamer (hydrochloride or carbonate), sevelamer plus calcium, lanthanum, iron (ferric citrate, sucroferric oxyhydroxide, stabilised polynuclear iron(III)-oxyhydroxide), calcium (acetate, ketoglutarate, carbonate), bixalomer, colestilan, magnesium (carbonate), magnesium plus calcium, aluminium hydroxide, sucralfate, the inhibitor of phosphate absorption nicotinamide, placebo, or usual care without binder. In 82 studies, treatment was evaluated among adults with CKD G5D treated with haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, while in 22 studies, treatment was evaluated among participants with CKD G2 to G5. The duration of study follow-up ranged from 8 weeks to 36 months (median 3.7 months). The sample size ranged from 8 to 2103 participants (median 69). The mean age ranged between 42.6 and 68.9 years.Random sequence generation and allocation concealment were low risk in 25 and 15 studies, respectively. Twenty-seven studies reported low risk methods for blinding of participants, investigators, and outcome assessors. Thirty-one studies were at low risk of attrition bias and 69 studies were at low risk of selective reporting bias.In CKD G2 to G5, compared with placebo or usual care, sevelamer, lanthanum, iron and calcium-based phosphate binders had uncertain or inestimable effects on death (all causes), cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, fracture, or coronary artery calcification. Sevelamer may lead to constipation (RR 6.92, CI 2.24 to 21.4; low certainty) and lanthanum (RR 2.98, CI 1.21 to 7.30, moderate certainty) and iron-based binders (RR 2.66, CI 1.15 to 6.12, moderate certainty) probably increased constipation compared with placebo or usual care. Lanthanum may result in vomiting (RR 3.72, CI 1.36 to 10.18, low certainty). Iron-based binders probably result in diarrhoea (RR 2.81, CI 1.18 to 6.68, high certainty), while the risks of other adverse events for all binders were uncertain.In CKD G5D sevelamer may lead to lower death (all causes) (RR 0.53, CI 0.30 to 0.91, low certainty) and induce less hypercalcaemia (RR 0.30, CI 0.20 to 0.43, low certainty) when compared with calcium-based binders, and has uncertain or inestimable effects on cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, fracture, or coronary artery calcification. The finding of lower death with sevelamer compared with calcium was present when the analysis was restricted to studies at low risk of bias (RR 0.50, CI 0.32 to 0.77). In absolute terms, sevelamer may lower risk of death (all causes) from 210 per 1000 to 105 per 1000 over a follow-up of up to 36 months, compared to calcium-based binders. Compared with calcium-based binders, lanthanum had uncertain effects with respect to all-cause or cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, fracture, or coronary artery calcification and probably had reduced risks of treatment-related hypercalcaemia (RR 0.16, CI 0.06 to 0.43, low certainty). There were no head-to-head studies of iron-based binders compared with calcium. The paucity of placebo-controlled studies in CKD G5D has led to uncertainty about the effects of phosphate binders on patient-important outcomes compared with placebo.It is uncertain whether the effects of binders on clinically-relevant outcomes were different for patients who were and were not treated with dialysis in subgroup analyses. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In studies of adults with CKD G5D treated with dialysis, sevelamer may lower death (all causes) compared to calcium-based binders and incur less treatment-related hypercalcaemia, while we found no clinically important benefits of any phosphate binder on cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, fracture or coronary artery calcification. The effects of binders on patient-important outcomes compared to placebo are uncertain. In patients with CKD G2 to G5, the effects of sevelamer, lanthanum, and iron-based phosphate binders on cardiovascular, vascular calcification, and bone outcomes compared to placebo or usual care, are also uncertain and they may incur constipation, while iron-based binders may lead to diarrhoea.
30342665	Bevacizumab	Aortitis	1	1	0	1	0.0	Drug-induced aortitis in a patient with ovarian cancer treated with bevacizumab combination therapy.	OBJECTIVE: To review and evaluate drug-induced vasculitis, which is an extremely rare complication of chemotherapy. CASE REPORT: A 47-year-old woman with ovarian cancer developed aortitis during bevacizumab combination chemotherapy. Contract-enhanced CT showed concentric thickening of the descending aorta. Antibiotics were administered, but a repeat CE-CT scan showed no resolution of the aortitis. To treat the aortitis, she was started on oral prednisolone. A subsequent CE-CT scan showed no signs of aortitis. She was thus re-started on a modified chemotherapy regimen. CONCLUSION: Aortitis should be considered in patients receiving bevacizumab combination therapy who develop persistent fever and upper-abdominal pain. Contrast-enhanced CT is useful for detecting drug-induced aortitis.
29724299	Bendamustine Hydrochloride	Vomiting	0	0	0	0		Comparison of antiemetic effects of granisetron and palonosetron in patients receiving bendamustine-based chemotherapy.	The antiemetic effects and safety of granisetron and palonosetron against chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) were retrospectively evaluated in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma receiving bendamustine-based chemotherapy. A total of 61 patients were eligible for this study. Before starting the bendamustine-based chemotherapy, granisetron or palonosetron were intravenously administered with or without aprepitant and/or dexamethasone. The proportions of patients with complete control (CC) during the overall (during the 6 days after the start of the chemotherapy), acute (up to 2 days), and delayed (3 to 6 days) phases were assessed. CC was defined as complete response with only grade 0-1 nausea, no vomiting, and no use of antiemetic rescue medication. Granisetron or palonosetron alone were administered to 9 and 19 patients, respectively. Aprepitant and/or dexamethasone were combined with granisetron and palonosetron in 28 and 5 patients, respectively. Acute CINV was completely controlled in all patients. Both granisetron monotherapy and palonosetron combination therapy could provide good control of delayed CINV, although the CC rates during the delayed and overall phases were not significantly different among mono- and combination therapy of the antiemetics. There was no significant difference in the frequencies of adverse drug events between the granisetron and palonosetron treatment groups. The present study showed that the antiemetic efficacy and safety of granisetron-based therapy were non-inferior to those of palonosetron-based therapy. Taken together with treatment costs, granisetron monotherapy would be adequate to prevent CINV in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma receiving bendamustine-based chemotherapy.
29696399	Levetiracetam	Rhabdomyolysis	1	0	0	0		Levetiracetam-induced rhabdomyolysis: the first Italian case.	
29601934	Aspirin	Melanoma	1	0	0	0		"Malignant melanoma associated with chronic once-daily aspirin exposure in males: A large, single-center, urban, US patient population cohort study from the ""Research on Adverse Drug events And Report"" (RADAR) project."	
29309550	Medroxyprogesterone Acetate	Disease Susceptibility	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hormonal Contraception and HIV-1 Acquisition: Biological Mechanisms.	Access to effective affordable contraception is critical for individual and public health. A wide range of hormonal contraceptives (HCs), which differ in composition, concentration of the progestin component, frequency of dosage, and method of administration, is currently available globally. However, the options are rather limited in settings with restricted economic resources that frequently overlap with areas of high HIV-1 prevalence. The predominant contraceptive used in sub-Saharan Africa is the progestin-only three-monthly injectable depot medroxyprogesterone acetate. Determination of whether HCs affect HIV-1 acquisition has been hampered by behavioral differences potentially confounding clinical observational data. Meta-analysis of these studies shows a significant association between depot medroxyprogesterone acetate use and increased risk of HIV-1 acquisition, raising important concerns. No association was found for combined oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel, nor for the two-monthly injectable contraceptive norethisterone enanthate, although data for norethisterone enanthate are limited. Susceptibility to HIV-1 and other sexually transmitted infections may, however, be dependent on the type of progestin present in the formulation. Several underlying biological mechanisms that may mediate the effect of HCs on HIV-1 and other sexually transmitted infection acquisition have been identified in clinical, animal, and ex vivo studies. A substantial gap exists in the translation of basic research into clinical practice and public health policy. To bridge this gap, we review the current knowledge of underlying mechanisms and biological effects of commonly used progestins. The review sheds light on issues critical for an informed choice of progestins for the identification of safe, effective, acceptable, and affordable contraceptive methods.
29149272	Acetaminophen	Cerebral Palsy	1	1	0	0	0.0	Use of paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin in pregnancy and risk of cerebral palsy in the child.	BACKGROUND: It has been debated whether mild analgesics, mainly paracetamol, adversely affect aspects of neurodevelopment. We examined whether mother's use of paracetamol, aspirin or ibuprofen in pregnancy is associated with increased risk of cerebral palsy (CP) in the child. METHOD: We included 185 617 mother-child pairs from the Danish National Birth Cohort and the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study. We created harmonized definitions of analgesic use in pregnancy, as well as indications for analgesic use and other potential confounders. Children with CP were identified in nationwide registers. We estimated the average causal effect of analgesics on risk of CP using marginal structural models with stabilized inverse probability weights. RESULTS: Paracetamol use was reported in 49% of all pregnancies, aspirin in 3% and ibuprofen in 4%. Prenatal exposure to paracetamol ever in pregnancy was associated with increased risk of overall CP [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.3, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0-1.7] and unilateral spastic CP (aOR 1.5, 95% CI: 1.0-2.2). The association appeared to be driven by an increased risk of unilateral spastic CP in children exposed in second trimester (aOR 1.6, 95% CI: 1.0-2.5). Children ever prenatally exposed to aspirin in pregnancy had an elevated risk of bilateral spastic CP (aOR 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) compared with unexposed. CONCLUSION: We observed an increased risk of spastic CP in children prenatally exposed to paracetamol and aspirin. Although we controlled for several important indications for analgesic use, we cannot exclude the possibility of confounding by underlying diseases.
29149272	Aspirin	Cerebral Palsy	1	1	0	0	0.0	Use of paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin in pregnancy and risk of cerebral palsy in the child.	BACKGROUND: It has been debated whether mild analgesics, mainly paracetamol, adversely affect aspects of neurodevelopment. We examined whether mother's use of paracetamol, aspirin or ibuprofen in pregnancy is associated with increased risk of cerebral palsy (CP) in the child. METHOD: We included 185 617 mother-child pairs from the Danish National Birth Cohort and the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study. We created harmonized definitions of analgesic use in pregnancy, as well as indications for analgesic use and other potential confounders. Children with CP were identified in nationwide registers. We estimated the average causal effect of analgesics on risk of CP using marginal structural models with stabilized inverse probability weights. RESULTS: Paracetamol use was reported in 49% of all pregnancies, aspirin in 3% and ibuprofen in 4%. Prenatal exposure to paracetamol ever in pregnancy was associated with increased risk of overall CP [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.3, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0-1.7] and unilateral spastic CP (aOR 1.5, 95% CI: 1.0-2.2). The association appeared to be driven by an increased risk of unilateral spastic CP in children exposed in second trimester (aOR 1.6, 95% CI: 1.0-2.5). Children ever prenatally exposed to aspirin in pregnancy had an elevated risk of bilateral spastic CP (aOR 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) compared with unexposed. CONCLUSION: We observed an increased risk of spastic CP in children prenatally exposed to paracetamol and aspirin. Although we controlled for several important indications for analgesic use, we cannot exclude the possibility of confounding by underlying diseases.
29149272	Ibuprofen	Cerebral Palsy	1	1	0	0	0.0	Use of paracetamol, ibuprofen or aspirin in pregnancy and risk of cerebral palsy in the child.	BACKGROUND: It has been debated whether mild analgesics, mainly paracetamol, adversely affect aspects of neurodevelopment. We examined whether mother's use of paracetamol, aspirin or ibuprofen in pregnancy is associated with increased risk of cerebral palsy (CP) in the child. METHOD: We included 185 617 mother-child pairs from the Danish National Birth Cohort and the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study. We created harmonized definitions of analgesic use in pregnancy, as well as indications for analgesic use and other potential confounders. Children with CP were identified in nationwide registers. We estimated the average causal effect of analgesics on risk of CP using marginal structural models with stabilized inverse probability weights. RESULTS: Paracetamol use was reported in 49% of all pregnancies, aspirin in 3% and ibuprofen in 4%. Prenatal exposure to paracetamol ever in pregnancy was associated with increased risk of overall CP [adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.3, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0-1.7] and unilateral spastic CP (aOR 1.5, 95% CI: 1.0-2.2). The association appeared to be driven by an increased risk of unilateral spastic CP in children exposed in second trimester (aOR 1.6, 95% CI: 1.0-2.5). Children ever prenatally exposed to aspirin in pregnancy had an elevated risk of bilateral spastic CP (aOR 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) compared with unexposed. CONCLUSION: We observed an increased risk of spastic CP in children prenatally exposed to paracetamol and aspirin. Although we controlled for several important indications for analgesic use, we cannot exclude the possibility of confounding by underlying diseases.
30401391	Everolimus	Renal Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Renal Function Changes Under Everolimus Plus Cyclosporine or Everolimus Plus Tacrolimus After Heart Transplantation.	Everolimus (EVR) can be used with calcineurin inhibitors to reduce the risk of renal dysfunction, with similar immunosuppressive effect. In this study, we compared renal function after heart transplantation (HT) under EVR with cyclosporine (CSA) or tacrolimus (TAC). Between 2004 and 2014, EVR with CSA or TAC was used in 117 HT at the National Taiwan University Hospital. After HT, all patients received corticosteroid, EVR (C0 target 3-8 ng/mL) and CSA (C0 blood level 100-200 ng/mL), or TAC (Co blood level 5-10 ng/mL). Renal function was evaluated before HT, every month after HT for up to 1 year, and then every 3 months for up to 2 years. Blood-drug levels of EVR, CSA, and TAC were also monitored simultaneously with renal function. The estimated mean glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was 76.5 mL/min/1.73 m(2) before HT. After HT, the eGFR was 64 mL/min/1.73 m(2) at the third month, and 64 mL/min/1.73 m(2) at the end of first year. The difference was significant between pre-HT and post-HT (P = .00) during the first year. No significant differences were noted between the CSA and TAC groups. Careful monitoring of blood-drug level and renal function is crucial after heart transplantation. It is concluded that under close monitoring blood-drug level and renal function, it is possible to reach acceptable postoperative renal function with no difference of renal function between EVR plus CSA and EVR plus TAC.
30244271	Hyaluronic Acid	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	An adverse reaction after hyaluronic acid filler application: a case report.	Among several skin fillers developed in recent decades, hyaluronic acid (HA) fillers have become the material of choice. They are safe, long-lasting, not immunogenic, and cost effective, and they can be removed with hyaluronidase. Unfortunately, early and delayed complications can also occur following HA filler injection. Here we report the case of a hyaluronic filler-related complication in a 50-year-old female patient. The locations affected were the forehead, glabella, and nose. Three days after HA filler application in the upper lip, glabellar region, and nasal root, with no immediate diverse reaction at the time of application, an erythematous, livedoid rash with a well-defined border occurred at the site of the injection in the glabellar region, including the area from the nasal root to the scalp and left upper eyelid. Because an infection or allergy was suspected, she was first given an antibiotic for 6 days p.o. and later also a corticosteroid systemically with good results. Two years later (in 2017) the patient decided to repeat the treatment with HA injections in the glabellar region and experienced no adverse reactions.
30080246	Decitabine	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in addition to chemotherapy for adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (non-acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)).	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is the most common acute leukaemia affecting adults. Most patients diagnosed with AML are at advanced age and present with co-morbidities, so that intensive therapy such as stem cell transplantation (SCT) is impossible to provide or is accompanied by high risks for serious adverse events and treatment-related mortality. Especially for these patients, it is necessary to find out whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an intermediate of vitamin A inducing terminal differentiation of leukaemic cell lines, added to chemotherapy confers increased benefit or harm when compared with the same chemotherapy alone. OBJECTIVES: This review aims to determine benefits and harms of ATRA in addition to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone for adults with AML (not those with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)). SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, study registries and relevant conference proceedings up to July 2018 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also contacted experts for unpublished data. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing chemotherapy alone with chemotherapy plus ATRA in patients with all stages of AML. We excluded trials if less than 80% of participants were adults or participants with AML, and if no subgroup data were available. Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were included, if they had a refractory anaemia and more than 20% of blasts. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the quality of trials. We contacted study authors to obtain missing information. We used hazard ratios (HR) for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS; instead of the pre-planned event-free survival, as this outcome was not reported), and we calculated risk ratios (RR) for the other outcomes quality of life, on-study mortality and adverse events. We presented all measures with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of evidence using GRADE methods. MAIN RESULTS: Our search resulted in 2192 potentially relevant references, of which we included eight trials with 28 publications assessing 3998 patients. Overall, we judged the potential risk of bias of the eight included trials as moderate. Two of eight trials were published as abstracts only. All the included trials used different chemotherapy schedules and one trial only evaluated the effect of the hypomethylating agent decitabine, a drug know to affect epigenetics, in combination with ATRA.The addition of ATRA to chemotherapy resulted in probably little or no difference in OS compared to chemotherapy only (2985 participants; HR 0.94 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.87 to 1.02); moderate-certainty evidence). Based on a mortality rate at 24 months of 70% with chemotherapy alone, the mortality rate with chemotherapy plus ATRA was 68% (95% CI 65% to 71%).For DFS, complete response rate (CRR) and on-study mortality there was probably little or no difference between treatment groups (DFS: 1258 participants, HR 0.99, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.12; CRR: 3081 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.09; on-study mortality: 2839 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.30, all moderate-certainty evidence).Three trials with 1428 participants reported the adverse events 'infection' and 'cardiac toxicity': There was probably no, or little difference in terms of infection rate between participants receiving ATRA or not (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.15; moderate-certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether ATRA decreases cardiac toxicity (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.90; P = 0.02, very low certainty-evidence, however, cardiac toxicity was low).Rates and severity of diarrhoea and nausea/vomiting were assessed in two trials with 337 patients and we are uncertain whether there is a difference between treatment arms (diarrhoea: RR 2.19, 95% CI 1.07 to 4.47; nausea/vomiting: RR 1.46, 95% CI 0.75 to 2.85; both very low-certainty evidence).Quality of life was not reported by any of the included trials. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence for a difference between participants receiving ATRA in addition to chemotherapy or chemotherapy only for the outcome OS. Regarding DFS, CRR and on-study mortality, there is probably no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. Currently, it seems the risk of adverse events are comparable to chemotherapy only.As quality of life has not been evaluated in any of the included trials, further research is needed to clarify the effect of ATRA on quality of life.
30080246	Decitabine	Infections	0	0	0	0		Effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in addition to chemotherapy for adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (non-acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)).	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is the most common acute leukaemia affecting adults. Most patients diagnosed with AML are at advanced age and present with co-morbidities, so that intensive therapy such as stem cell transplantation (SCT) is impossible to provide or is accompanied by high risks for serious adverse events and treatment-related mortality. Especially for these patients, it is necessary to find out whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an intermediate of vitamin A inducing terminal differentiation of leukaemic cell lines, added to chemotherapy confers increased benefit or harm when compared with the same chemotherapy alone. OBJECTIVES: This review aims to determine benefits and harms of ATRA in addition to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone for adults with AML (not those with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)). SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, study registries and relevant conference proceedings up to July 2018 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also contacted experts for unpublished data. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing chemotherapy alone with chemotherapy plus ATRA in patients with all stages of AML. We excluded trials if less than 80% of participants were adults or participants with AML, and if no subgroup data were available. Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were included, if they had a refractory anaemia and more than 20% of blasts. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the quality of trials. We contacted study authors to obtain missing information. We used hazard ratios (HR) for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS; instead of the pre-planned event-free survival, as this outcome was not reported), and we calculated risk ratios (RR) for the other outcomes quality of life, on-study mortality and adverse events. We presented all measures with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of evidence using GRADE methods. MAIN RESULTS: Our search resulted in 2192 potentially relevant references, of which we included eight trials with 28 publications assessing 3998 patients. Overall, we judged the potential risk of bias of the eight included trials as moderate. Two of eight trials were published as abstracts only. All the included trials used different chemotherapy schedules and one trial only evaluated the effect of the hypomethylating agent decitabine, a drug know to affect epigenetics, in combination with ATRA.The addition of ATRA to chemotherapy resulted in probably little or no difference in OS compared to chemotherapy only (2985 participants; HR 0.94 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.87 to 1.02); moderate-certainty evidence). Based on a mortality rate at 24 months of 70% with chemotherapy alone, the mortality rate with chemotherapy plus ATRA was 68% (95% CI 65% to 71%).For DFS, complete response rate (CRR) and on-study mortality there was probably little or no difference between treatment groups (DFS: 1258 participants, HR 0.99, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.12; CRR: 3081 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.09; on-study mortality: 2839 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.30, all moderate-certainty evidence).Three trials with 1428 participants reported the adverse events 'infection' and 'cardiac toxicity': There was probably no, or little difference in terms of infection rate between participants receiving ATRA or not (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.15; moderate-certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether ATRA decreases cardiac toxicity (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.90; P = 0.02, very low certainty-evidence, however, cardiac toxicity was low).Rates and severity of diarrhoea and nausea/vomiting were assessed in two trials with 337 patients and we are uncertain whether there is a difference between treatment arms (diarrhoea: RR 2.19, 95% CI 1.07 to 4.47; nausea/vomiting: RR 1.46, 95% CI 0.75 to 2.85; both very low-certainty evidence).Quality of life was not reported by any of the included trials. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence for a difference between participants receiving ATRA in addition to chemotherapy or chemotherapy only for the outcome OS. Regarding DFS, CRR and on-study mortality, there is probably no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. Currently, it seems the risk of adverse events are comparable to chemotherapy only.As quality of life has not been evaluated in any of the included trials, further research is needed to clarify the effect of ATRA on quality of life.
30080246	Decitabine	Nausea	0	0	0	0		Effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in addition to chemotherapy for adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (non-acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)).	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is the most common acute leukaemia affecting adults. Most patients diagnosed with AML are at advanced age and present with co-morbidities, so that intensive therapy such as stem cell transplantation (SCT) is impossible to provide or is accompanied by high risks for serious adverse events and treatment-related mortality. Especially for these patients, it is necessary to find out whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an intermediate of vitamin A inducing terminal differentiation of leukaemic cell lines, added to chemotherapy confers increased benefit or harm when compared with the same chemotherapy alone. OBJECTIVES: This review aims to determine benefits and harms of ATRA in addition to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone for adults with AML (not those with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)). SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, study registries and relevant conference proceedings up to July 2018 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also contacted experts for unpublished data. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing chemotherapy alone with chemotherapy plus ATRA in patients with all stages of AML. We excluded trials if less than 80% of participants were adults or participants with AML, and if no subgroup data were available. Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were included, if they had a refractory anaemia and more than 20% of blasts. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the quality of trials. We contacted study authors to obtain missing information. We used hazard ratios (HR) for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS; instead of the pre-planned event-free survival, as this outcome was not reported), and we calculated risk ratios (RR) for the other outcomes quality of life, on-study mortality and adverse events. We presented all measures with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of evidence using GRADE methods. MAIN RESULTS: Our search resulted in 2192 potentially relevant references, of which we included eight trials with 28 publications assessing 3998 patients. Overall, we judged the potential risk of bias of the eight included trials as moderate. Two of eight trials were published as abstracts only. All the included trials used different chemotherapy schedules and one trial only evaluated the effect of the hypomethylating agent decitabine, a drug know to affect epigenetics, in combination with ATRA.The addition of ATRA to chemotherapy resulted in probably little or no difference in OS compared to chemotherapy only (2985 participants; HR 0.94 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.87 to 1.02); moderate-certainty evidence). Based on a mortality rate at 24 months of 70% with chemotherapy alone, the mortality rate with chemotherapy plus ATRA was 68% (95% CI 65% to 71%).For DFS, complete response rate (CRR) and on-study mortality there was probably little or no difference between treatment groups (DFS: 1258 participants, HR 0.99, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.12; CRR: 3081 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.09; on-study mortality: 2839 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.30, all moderate-certainty evidence).Three trials with 1428 participants reported the adverse events 'infection' and 'cardiac toxicity': There was probably no, or little difference in terms of infection rate between participants receiving ATRA or not (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.15; moderate-certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether ATRA decreases cardiac toxicity (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.90; P = 0.02, very low certainty-evidence, however, cardiac toxicity was low).Rates and severity of diarrhoea and nausea/vomiting were assessed in two trials with 337 patients and we are uncertain whether there is a difference between treatment arms (diarrhoea: RR 2.19, 95% CI 1.07 to 4.47; nausea/vomiting: RR 1.46, 95% CI 0.75 to 2.85; both very low-certainty evidence).Quality of life was not reported by any of the included trials. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence for a difference between participants receiving ATRA in addition to chemotherapy or chemotherapy only for the outcome OS. Regarding DFS, CRR and on-study mortality, there is probably no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. Currently, it seems the risk of adverse events are comparable to chemotherapy only.As quality of life has not been evaluated in any of the included trials, further research is needed to clarify the effect of ATRA on quality of life.
30080246	Decitabine	Vomiting	0	0	0	0		Effects of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in addition to chemotherapy for adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (non-acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)).	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is the most common acute leukaemia affecting adults. Most patients diagnosed with AML are at advanced age and present with co-morbidities, so that intensive therapy such as stem cell transplantation (SCT) is impossible to provide or is accompanied by high risks for serious adverse events and treatment-related mortality. Especially for these patients, it is necessary to find out whether all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an intermediate of vitamin A inducing terminal differentiation of leukaemic cell lines, added to chemotherapy confers increased benefit or harm when compared with the same chemotherapy alone. OBJECTIVES: This review aims to determine benefits and harms of ATRA in addition to chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone for adults with AML (not those with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (non-APL)). SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, study registries and relevant conference proceedings up to July 2018 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also contacted experts for unpublished data. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs comparing chemotherapy alone with chemotherapy plus ATRA in patients with all stages of AML. We excluded trials if less than 80% of participants were adults or participants with AML, and if no subgroup data were available. Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) were included, if they had a refractory anaemia and more than 20% of blasts. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the quality of trials. We contacted study authors to obtain missing information. We used hazard ratios (HR) for overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS; instead of the pre-planned event-free survival, as this outcome was not reported), and we calculated risk ratios (RR) for the other outcomes quality of life, on-study mortality and adverse events. We presented all measures with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of evidence using GRADE methods. MAIN RESULTS: Our search resulted in 2192 potentially relevant references, of which we included eight trials with 28 publications assessing 3998 patients. Overall, we judged the potential risk of bias of the eight included trials as moderate. Two of eight trials were published as abstracts only. All the included trials used different chemotherapy schedules and one trial only evaluated the effect of the hypomethylating agent decitabine, a drug know to affect epigenetics, in combination with ATRA.The addition of ATRA to chemotherapy resulted in probably little or no difference in OS compared to chemotherapy only (2985 participants; HR 0.94 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.87 to 1.02); moderate-certainty evidence). Based on a mortality rate at 24 months of 70% with chemotherapy alone, the mortality rate with chemotherapy plus ATRA was 68% (95% CI 65% to 71%).For DFS, complete response rate (CRR) and on-study mortality there was probably little or no difference between treatment groups (DFS: 1258 participants, HR 0.99, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.12; CRR: 3081 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.09; on-study mortality: 2839 participants, RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.30, all moderate-certainty evidence).Three trials with 1428 participants reported the adverse events 'infection' and 'cardiac toxicity': There was probably no, or little difference in terms of infection rate between participants receiving ATRA or not (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.15; moderate-certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether ATRA decreases cardiac toxicity (RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.90; P = 0.02, very low certainty-evidence, however, cardiac toxicity was low).Rates and severity of diarrhoea and nausea/vomiting were assessed in two trials with 337 patients and we are uncertain whether there is a difference between treatment arms (diarrhoea: RR 2.19, 95% CI 1.07 to 4.47; nausea/vomiting: RR 1.46, 95% CI 0.75 to 2.85; both very low-certainty evidence).Quality of life was not reported by any of the included trials. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence for a difference between participants receiving ATRA in addition to chemotherapy or chemotherapy only for the outcome OS. Regarding DFS, CRR and on-study mortality, there is probably no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. Currently, it seems the risk of adverse events are comparable to chemotherapy only.As quality of life has not been evaluated in any of the included trials, further research is needed to clarify the effect of ATRA on quality of life.
29212592	Ipilimumab	Thyroid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Immune checkpoint inhibitors and endocrinological side effects].	Immune checkpoint inhibitors including anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 and anti-programmed cell death-1 have revolutionized cancer therapy but have also induced serious immune-related adverse events including hormonal dysfunction. The objective of this review is to characterize the incidence, clinical presentation, management and prognosis of the endocrine-related adverse events including hypophysitis, thyroid dysfunction and diabetes mellitus. Combination therapy is associated with an increased risk of adverse events. We recommend close monitoring of the hormone levels and glycaemic status during and a year after treatment.
29212592	Nivolumab	Addison Disease	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Immune checkpoint inhibitors and endocrinological side effects].	Immune checkpoint inhibitors including anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 and anti-programmed cell death-1 have revolutionized cancer therapy but have also induced serious immune-related adverse events including hormonal dysfunction. The objective of this review is to characterize the incidence, clinical presentation, management and prognosis of the endocrine-related adverse events including hypophysitis, thyroid dysfunction and diabetes mellitus. Combination therapy is associated with an increased risk of adverse events. We recommend close monitoring of the hormone levels and glycaemic status during and a year after treatment.
29084616	Amphetamine	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Amphetamine abuse is a possible cause of pontine haemorrhage].	This is a case report of a 55-year-old male, who was admitted due to right-sided sensorimotor deficits and one-and-a-half syndrome He had snorted 5 g of amphetamine over 24 h two months prior to admission. He was normotensive on admission. A CT brain scan showed left pontine haemorrhage, but a CT angiogram showed no vascular malformations nor vessel beading, and a two-month follow-up MRI showed no vascular malformations nor tumours. To the best of our knowledge, this is the fifth published case of pontine haemorrhage, and the first published case of one-and-a-half syndrome related to amphetamine abuse.
28825377	Vinorelbine	Hematologic Diseases	0	0	0	0		Effectiveness of adjuvant carboplatin-based chemotherapy compared to cisplatin in non-small cell lung cancer.	BACKGROUND: Cisplatin and vinorelbine given intravenously is a well-established adjuvant chemotherapy regimen after surgery for early non-small cell lung cancer. However, few validated alternatives exist when cisplatin is not indicated or tolerated. Carboplatin is frequently used in this setting. We evaluated the 5-year overall survival, progression-free survival and toxicity in patients treated for stage IB to IIIB resected non-small cell lung cancer receiving adjuvant carboplatin-based chemotherapy compared to cisplatin in association with vinorelbine. METHODS: Single-center retrospective study of patients having received adjuvant chemotherapy between January 2004 and December 2013 at the oncology clinic at Institut Universitaire de Cardiologie et de Pneumologie de Quebec (Canada). Three sub-groups, cisplatin/vinorelbine, carboplatin/vinorelbine and the substitution of cisplatin/vinorelbine for carboplatin/vinorelbine (cisplatin/vinorelbine/carboplatin/vinorelbine), were studied during treatment. RESULTS: One hundred twenty-seven patients were included in this study. The median PFS was not significantly different, with 50.4 months for cisplatin/vinorelbine, 57.3 months for cisplatin/vinorelbine/carboplatin/vinorelbine and not yet achieved for the carboplatin/vinorelbine group ( p = 0.80). Overall survival also did not differ significantly between the three groups. The 5-year overall survival rates were 66% in cisplatin/vinorelbine group, 55% in carboplatin/vinorelbine group and 70% in cisplatin/vinorelbine/carboplatin/vinorelbine group ( p = 0, 95). No differences were noted between groups concerning high-grade hematologic toxicity. CONCLUSIONS: Although the effectiveness and hematologic toxicity are comparable between cisplat in and carboplatin in the adjuvant treatment of resected non-small cell lung cancer, the results obtained corroborate the practice used at our oncology clinic. Nevertheless, more prospective studies would be needed to confirm these results.
30630477	Glucose	Kidney Diseases	0	0	0	0		Coreopsis tinctoria Nutt ameliorates high glucose-induced renal fibrosis and inflammation via the TGF-beta1/SMADS/AMPK/NF-kappaB pathways.	BACKGROUND: Coreopsis tinctoria Nutt is an ethnomedicine widely used in Xinjiang, China. It is consumed as a herbal tea by local Uyghur people to treat high blood pressure and diarrhea. Our previous study confirmed that the ethyl acetate extract of Coreopsis tinctoria (AC) had a protective effect on diabetic nephropathy (DN) in an in vivo experiment. Here we aim to elucidate the protective mechanism of AC and marein, the main ingredient in Coreopsis tinctoria on renal fibrosis and inflammation in vitro under high glucose (HG) conditions. METHODS: A HG-induced barrier dysfunction model in rat mesangial cells (HBZY-1) was established. The cells were exposed to AC and marein and/or HG for 24 h. Then, the renal protective effects of AC and marein via transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)/Smads, AMP-activated kinase protein (AMPK), and nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-kappaB) signaling were assessed. RESULTS: Both AC and marein suppressed rat mesangial cell hyperplasia and significantly attenuated the expression of HG-disrupted fibrotic and inflammatory proteins in HBZY-1 cells. It was also confirmed that AC and marein remarkably attenuated HG-induced renal inflammation and fibrosis by regulating the AMPK, TGF-beta1/Smads, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways. CONCLUSION: These results indicated that AC and marein may delay the progression of DN, at least in part, by suppressing HG-induced renal inflammation and fibrosis. Marein may be one of the bioactive compounds in AC.
30275022	Furosemide	Hypoxia	1	0	0	0		Hypoxic hepatitis and furosemide.	Hypoxic hepatitis is a rather common complication of heart, circulatory or respiratory failure. We present the case of a patient with hypoxic hepatitis in the setting of heart failure and dehydration from furosemide as a reminder of an important clinical lesson. The pathogenesis of hypoxia (especially in the case of heart failure) is explained by a two-hit mechanism in which the liver at risk of hypoxic injury by passive hepatic congestion (right heart failure) is subsequently exposed to systemic hypoperfusion, which leads to a marked and transient elevation of aminotransferases. In the case presented, the use of furosemide (at least partially) promoted the second hit because it helped to generate hypotension and splanchnic hypovolaemia and favoured hepatic hypoxia.
30275021	Vemurafenib	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	DRESS syndrome due to vemurafenib treatment: switching BRAF inhibitor to solve a big problem.	We present a case report of an early-onset drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) induced by vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) in a middle-age man affected by a metastatic, BRAF mutant melanoma who was started on first-line metastatic treatment with vemurafenib and cobimetinib.After initiating the treatment, the patient presented an extensive cutaneous rash with eosinophilia and renal impairment. Due the constellation of signs and symptoms, a diagnosis of DRESS syndrome was made which strongly contraindicated the reintroduction of vemurafenib due to its hypersensibility reaction. Thus, vemurafenib was stopped immediately, and we started corticoid treatment with clinical improvement.Due to the contraindication to start vemurafenib again, after multidisciplinary view of the case and having balanced the risks and benefits, we successfully performed a switch to another BRAF inhibitor in a progressively ascending pattern, without any skin toxicity and with a good response of the metastatic melanoma.
30275021	Vemurafenib	Eosinophilia	1	1	0	0	0.0	DRESS syndrome due to vemurafenib treatment: switching BRAF inhibitor to solve a big problem.	We present a case report of an early-onset drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) induced by vemurafenib (BRAF inhibitor) in a middle-age man affected by a metastatic, BRAF mutant melanoma who was started on first-line metastatic treatment with vemurafenib and cobimetinib.After initiating the treatment, the patient presented an extensive cutaneous rash with eosinophilia and renal impairment. Due the constellation of signs and symptoms, a diagnosis of DRESS syndrome was made which strongly contraindicated the reintroduction of vemurafenib due to its hypersensibility reaction. Thus, vemurafenib was stopped immediately, and we started corticoid treatment with clinical improvement.Due to the contraindication to start vemurafenib again, after multidisciplinary view of the case and having balanced the risks and benefits, we successfully performed a switch to another BRAF inhibitor in a progressively ascending pattern, without any skin toxicity and with a good response of the metastatic melanoma.
30071904	Palm Oil	Obesity	0	0	0	0		The gut microbiota drives the impact of bile acids and fat source in diet on mouse metabolism.	BACKGROUND: As the gut microbiota contributes to metabolic health, it is important to determine specific diet-microbiota interactions that influence host metabolism. Bile acids and dietary fat source can alter phenotypes of diet-induced obesity, but the interplay with intestinal microorganisms is unclear. Here, we investigated metabolic consequences of diets enriched in primary bile acids with or without addition of lard or palm oil, and studied gut microbiota structure and functions in mice. RESULTS: In combination with bile acids, dietary lard fed to male C57BL/6N mice for a period of 8 weeks enhanced fat mass accumulation in colonized, but not in germ-free mice when compared to palm oil. This was associated with impaired glucose tolerance, lower fasting insulin levels, lower counts of enteroendocrine cells, fatty liver, and elevated amounts of hepatic triglycerides, cholesteryl esters, and monounsaturated fatty acids. Lard- and bile acid-fed mice were characterized by shifts in dominant gut bacterial communities, including decreased relative abundances of Lachnospiraceae and increased occurrence of Desulfovibrionaceae and the species Clostridium lactatifermentans and Flintibacter butyricus. Metatranscriptomic analysis revealed shifts in microbial functions, including lipid and amino acid metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Caution is required when interpreting data from diet-induced obesity models due to varying effects of dietary fat source. Detrimental metabolic consequences of a diet enriched with lard and primary bile acids were dependent on microbial colonization of the host and were linked to hepatic lipid rearrangements and to alterations of dominant bacterial communities in the cecum.
29957476	Aripiprazole	Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Aripiprazole and pregnancy: A retrospective, multicentre study.	BACKGROUND: Aripiprazole is a second generation antipsychotic medication that has been a useful addition to the treatment of severe mental illness due to its low metabolic and sedation risk profile. Pregnancy is a time of high risk of metabolic complications such as gestational diabetes and the postpartum period is often a time when sedation can compromise infant care. To date there is limited data in pregnancy on the safety of aripiprazole use. While available data do not suggest an elevated malformation risk in pregnancy, there is less information available on pregnancy and neonatal complications. METHODS: This study presents preliminary data on pregnancy and neonatal complications on 26 women who took aripiprazole in pregnancy. These women attended at antenatal clinics for women with severe mental illness at two hospitals in Australia. RESULTS: Overall aripiprazole was not associated with an increased risk of gestational diabetes. However, use of aripiprazole in pregnancy was associated with an increased risk of pregnancy hypertension, lower birth weight, shorter gestation at birth and higher rates of admission of the neonate than the expected population rates. LIMITATIONS: These findings need to be replicated in a larger, well-designed study to ensure they do not reflect confounding factors. CONCLUSIONS: Findings demonstrate that aripiprazole is unlikely to pose a metabolic risk in pregnancy but other pregnancy complications including hypertension, need to be examined in further studies.
29936394	Atorvastatin	Depression	1	0	0	0		Comparative risk of lipophilic and hydrophilic statins on incident depression: A retrospective cohort study.	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the risk of new-onset depression in a cohort of US adult patients initiating lipophilic statin therapy compared to hydrophilic statin therapy. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study. SETTING: Large US commercial claims database PARTICIPANTS: 1:1 propensity score matched cohort of lipophilic (atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin) and hydrophilic (pravastatin and rosuvastatin) statin initiators between January 2009 to June 2015. OUTCOME: New onset of depression. RESULTS: In a propensity-score matched cohort of 299,298 statin initiators, the crude incidence of depression in the hydrophilic and lipophilic group was 136.6 and 142.8 per 10,000 person-years respectively. Compared to hydrophilic statin use, lipophilic statin use was not associated with a statistically significant increase in the risk of depression, adjusted HR 1.05 (95% CI, 1.00-1.10, p = 0.078) and excess incidence of 6.3 (95% CI, -0.7-13.7) per 10,000 person-years. Findings were consistent across the subgroups of patients with history of psychiatric conditions HR 1.05 (95% CI, 0.94-1.16, p = 0.41), and those initiating statins for primary or secondary prevention, HR 1.03 (95% CI, 0.97-1.10, p = 0.33) and 1.07 (95% CI, 0.99-1.16, p = 0.10) respectively. Within individual lipophilic statins, only simvastatin was associated with a moderate increase in the risk of depression HR 1.09 (95% CI, 1.02-1.16, p = 0.003), followed by lovastatin HR 1.07 (95% CI, 0.93-1.24, p = 0.34) and atorvastatin HR 1.05 (95% CI, 0.97-1.13, p = 0.27). LIMITATIONS: Findings are generalizable to patients with commercial insurance. CONCLUSIONS: Lipophilic statin use was not associated with a significant increase in the risk of incident depression.
29936394	Rosuvastatin Calcium	Depression	1	0	0	0		Comparative risk of lipophilic and hydrophilic statins on incident depression: A retrospective cohort study.	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the risk of new-onset depression in a cohort of US adult patients initiating lipophilic statin therapy compared to hydrophilic statin therapy. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study. SETTING: Large US commercial claims database PARTICIPANTS: 1:1 propensity score matched cohort of lipophilic (atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin) and hydrophilic (pravastatin and rosuvastatin) statin initiators between January 2009 to June 2015. OUTCOME: New onset of depression. RESULTS: In a propensity-score matched cohort of 299,298 statin initiators, the crude incidence of depression in the hydrophilic and lipophilic group was 136.6 and 142.8 per 10,000 person-years respectively. Compared to hydrophilic statin use, lipophilic statin use was not associated with a statistically significant increase in the risk of depression, adjusted HR 1.05 (95% CI, 1.00-1.10, p = 0.078) and excess incidence of 6.3 (95% CI, -0.7-13.7) per 10,000 person-years. Findings were consistent across the subgroups of patients with history of psychiatric conditions HR 1.05 (95% CI, 0.94-1.16, p = 0.41), and those initiating statins for primary or secondary prevention, HR 1.03 (95% CI, 0.97-1.10, p = 0.33) and 1.07 (95% CI, 0.99-1.16, p = 0.10) respectively. Within individual lipophilic statins, only simvastatin was associated with a moderate increase in the risk of depression HR 1.09 (95% CI, 1.02-1.16, p = 0.003), followed by lovastatin HR 1.07 (95% CI, 0.93-1.24, p = 0.34) and atorvastatin HR 1.05 (95% CI, 0.97-1.13, p = 0.27). LIMITATIONS: Findings are generalizable to patients with commercial insurance. CONCLUSIONS: Lipophilic statin use was not associated with a significant increase in the risk of incident depression.
29645071	Daclizumab	Autoimmune Diseases	0	1	0	0		Daclizumab in multiple sclerosis.	INTRODUCTION: Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against the CD25 subunit of the interleukin-2 receptor, investigated as a disease-modifying therapy in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The present review addresses how the drug was developed, the known mechanism of action of the drug and the up-to-date data of efficacy and safety. DEVELOPMENT: Daclizumab has shown superiority in prevention of relapses against placebo and low-dose interferon beta-1a at a level that puts it on par with the rest of current first-line drugs. The effect on the progression of the disease and on neurodegeneration parameters, however, is not clear. On the other hand, it presents safety problems (mainly risk of autoimmunity phenomena including fulminant hepatopathy and encephalitis) that have supposed eventually its withdrawn from marketing. Daclizumab introduces a new mechanism of action through the blocking of a key interleukin in immune regulation and its effect on a population of cells with regulatory ability, such as the NK CD56(bright) cells. CONCLUSIONS: Daclizumab has shown efficacy in slowing the inflammatory process of multiple sclerosis, although the appearance of potentially serious side effects has not allowed its use to significantly impact current clinical practice. The development of new drugs in multiple sclerosis must be contingent on maintaining or improving the risk-benefit profile with respect to those already in use.
29645071	Daclizumab	Encephalitis	0	1	0	0		Daclizumab in multiple sclerosis.	INTRODUCTION: Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against the CD25 subunit of the interleukin-2 receptor, investigated as a disease-modifying therapy in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The present review addresses how the drug was developed, the known mechanism of action of the drug and the up-to-date data of efficacy and safety. DEVELOPMENT: Daclizumab has shown superiority in prevention of relapses against placebo and low-dose interferon beta-1a at a level that puts it on par with the rest of current first-line drugs. The effect on the progression of the disease and on neurodegeneration parameters, however, is not clear. On the other hand, it presents safety problems (mainly risk of autoimmunity phenomena including fulminant hepatopathy and encephalitis) that have supposed eventually its withdrawn from marketing. Daclizumab introduces a new mechanism of action through the blocking of a key interleukin in immune regulation and its effect on a population of cells with regulatory ability, such as the NK CD56(bright) cells. CONCLUSIONS: Daclizumab has shown efficacy in slowing the inflammatory process of multiple sclerosis, although the appearance of potentially serious side effects has not allowed its use to significantly impact current clinical practice. The development of new drugs in multiple sclerosis must be contingent on maintaining or improving the risk-benefit profile with respect to those already in use.
29222350	Leflunomide	Abortion, Spontaneous	1	0	0	0		Leflunomide use during pregnancy and the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes.	OBJECTIVES: Leflunomide is known to be embryotoxic and teratogenic in rodents. However, there is less evidence in humans. We quantified the risk of major congenital malformation (MCM), prematurity, low birth weight (LBW) and spontaneous abortion associated with leflunomide exposure during pregnancy in humans. METHODS: From a cohort of 289 688 pregnancies in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, from 1998 to 2015, first-trimester leflunomide exposure and other antirheumatic drug exposures were studied for their association with MCM and spontaneous abortions. Also second or third-trimester leflunomide exposures were examined for associations with prematurity and LBW. Logistic regression model-based generalised estimating equations were used. RESULTS: 51 pregnancies were exposed to leflunomide during the first trimester, and 21 during the second/third trimesters. Adjusting for potential confounders, use of leflunomide during the first trimester of pregnancy was not associated with the risk of MCM (adjusted OR (aOR) 0.97, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.16; 5 exposed cases). No association was found between second/third-trimester exposure to leflunomide and the risk of prematurity (aOR 4.03, 95% CI 0.91 to 17.85; 7 exposed cases) nor LBW (aOR 1.06, 95%CI 0.90 to 1.25; 8 exposed cases). Pregnancy exposure to leflunomide was also not associated with the risk of spontaneous abortion (aOR 1.09, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.32; 11 exposed cases). CONCLUSIONS: Maternal exposure to leflunomide during pregnancy was not associated with statistically significant increased risk of MCMs, prematurity, LBW or spontaneous abortions. However, given that relatively few women were exposed to leflunomide during pregnancy in this cohort, caution remains warranted.
30173288	Antilymphocyte Serum	Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immunosuppressive therapy for aplastic anemia: a single-center experience from western India.	Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) with antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine A (CsA) is the first-line therapy for acquired aplastic anemia (AA) in those not suitable for bone marrow transplant. Horse ATG (hATG) is preferred for this purpose, but its use is often impeded by shortages and costs. Being a rare disease, there is limited data on this therapy. This study aimed to evaluate this therapy in a large cohort of AA patients from western India. We retrospectively analyzed AA patients who received an indigenous preparation of hATG along with CsA as first-line treatment, between 2012 and 2015, at our center and evaluated the response, survival, and occurrence of adverse events. The response was further assessed separately for adults and children. During the period, 91 AA patients (4 non-severe, 57 severe and 30 very severe) were treated with IST. At 2 years, 23.5% adults and 39.1% children showed complete response and an overall of 68.1% cases became transfusion independent. More than half of the patients developed febrile neutropenia while roughly one sixth of the patients developed gum hypertrophy and/or hypertension. Two patients had clonal evolution. Mortality rate was calculated to be 31%; most common causes of death were infection and intracranial hemorrhage. The results of the study substantiate the effectiveness of IST in AA, using an inexpensive indigenous preparation of hATG along with CsA.
30173288	Antilymphocyte Serum	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immunosuppressive therapy for aplastic anemia: a single-center experience from western India.	Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) with antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine A (CsA) is the first-line therapy for acquired aplastic anemia (AA) in those not suitable for bone marrow transplant. Horse ATG (hATG) is preferred for this purpose, but its use is often impeded by shortages and costs. Being a rare disease, there is limited data on this therapy. This study aimed to evaluate this therapy in a large cohort of AA patients from western India. We retrospectively analyzed AA patients who received an indigenous preparation of hATG along with CsA as first-line treatment, between 2012 and 2015, at our center and evaluated the response, survival, and occurrence of adverse events. The response was further assessed separately for adults and children. During the period, 91 AA patients (4 non-severe, 57 severe and 30 very severe) were treated with IST. At 2 years, 23.5% adults and 39.1% children showed complete response and an overall of 68.1% cases became transfusion independent. More than half of the patients developed febrile neutropenia while roughly one sixth of the patients developed gum hypertrophy and/or hypertension. Two patients had clonal evolution. Mortality rate was calculated to be 31%; most common causes of death were infection and intracranial hemorrhage. The results of the study substantiate the effectiveness of IST in AA, using an inexpensive indigenous preparation of hATG along with CsA.
30140091	Topiramate	Seizures	1	1	1	1	1.0	Microseizures Induced by Topiramate.	A 22-year-old Japanese male with trisomy 21 was diagnosed with West syndrome at 4 months old. After the suppression of epileptic spasms using adrenocorticotropic hormone therapy, he had complex partial seizures and bilateral frontal epileptic discharges on EEG. Although the introduction of topiramate (TPM) decreased the seizures during wakefulness, frequent episodes of brief eye-opening appeared during sleep while the patient was taking TPM (400 mg/day). EEG showed fast activity at the times of eye-opening. The episodes of eye-opening during sleep and the fast activities disappeared upon TPM discontinuation. This is the first report of TPM-induced microseizures similar to benzodiazepine-induced microseizures.
29978285	Cyclophosphamide	Staphylococcal Infections	1	0	0	0		Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-positive aggressive adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma.	
29978285	Doxorubicin	Staphylococcal Infections	1	0	0	0		Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-positive aggressive adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma.	
29978285	Prednisone	Staphylococcal Infections	1	0	0	0		Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-positive aggressive adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma.	
29978285	Vincristine	Staphylococcal Infections	1	0	0	0		Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-positive aggressive adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma.	
29962251	Glycine	Pancreatic Diseases	0	1	0	0		Pancreatic function and histoarchitecture in Wistar rats following chronic exposure to Bushfire(R): the mitigating role of zinc.	Objectives To assess the toxicopathologic effects of chronic exposure to the glyphosate-based herbicide Bushfire(R) on the pancreas of Wistar rats and the protective role of zinc. Methods We exposed the rats to daily doses of 14.4 to 750 mg/kg body weight of the glyphosate-based herbicide Bushfire(R) and to 50 or 100 mg/kg zinc, and measured blood glucose levels and serum insulin levels. Tissue samples were evaluated for histopathological alterations. Results Levels of both blood glucose and serum insulin increased in glyphosate-exposed rats, and moderate to severe degenerative changes were observed in both glandular pancreatic acinar cells and islets of Langerhans in all rats exposed to glyphosate. These effects were prevented by pretreatment with zinc. Conclusion Chronic exposure to glyphosate can alter pancreatic function and histoarchitecture, but zinc supplementation can mitigate these toxicopathologic effects.
29804266	Doxorubicin	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Autoimmune myelitis in a CLL patient undergoing treatment with ibrutinib.	
29804266	Doxorubicin	Myelitis	1	0	0	0		Autoimmune myelitis in a CLL patient undergoing treatment with ibrutinib.	
29804266	Prednisone	Myelitis	1	0	0	0		Autoimmune myelitis in a CLL patient undergoing treatment with ibrutinib.	
29804266	Vincristine	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Autoimmune myelitis in a CLL patient undergoing treatment with ibrutinib.	
29804266	Vincristine	Myelitis	1	0	0	0		Autoimmune myelitis in a CLL patient undergoing treatment with ibrutinib.	
30246705	Docetaxel	Pellagra	1	0	0	0		Docetaxel induced pellagroid dematitis.	
30055204	Clomiphene	Neoplasms, Hormone-Dependent	0	1	0	0		Melanoma risk after in vitro fertilization: A review of the literature.	BACKGROUND: The role of female sex hormones in the pathogenesis of malignant melanoma (MM) remains controversial. Although melanocytes appear to be hormonally responsive, the effect of estrogen on MM cells is less clear. Available clinical data does not consistently demonstrate that increased endogenous hormones from pregnancy or increased exogenous hormones from oral contraceptive pills and hormone replacement affect MM prevalence and outcome. OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine potential associations between in vitro fertilization (IVF) and melanoma. METHODS: A literature review was conducted. Primary outcomes were reported as associations between IVF and melanoma risk compared with the general population. Secondary outcomes included associations stratified by type of IVF regimen and subgroup, such as parous versus nulliparous patients. RESULTS: Eleven studies met our inclusion criteria. Five studies found no increased risk for MM among IVF users compared with the general population. Two studies found an increase in MM in clomiphene users, and 4 studies found an increase in MM among patients who were gravid or parous either before or after IVF. CONCLUSION: The reviewed studies do not reveal consistent patterns of association between IVF and MM among all infertile women. However, the data indicates a potential increased risk for MM in ever-parous patients treated with IVF. High-quality studies including a large number of MM cases that control for well-established MM risk factors are needed to adequately assess the relationship between IVF and MM, particularly among ever-parous women.
29673751	Fingolimod Hydrochloride	Lymphoproliferative Disorders	1	1	0	1	0.0	[Primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell lymphoproliferation during treatment with fingolimod: Case report and literature review].	BACKGROUND: Fingolimod is an oral immunomodulator approved for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. We report a case of a primary cutaneous CD30+ T-cell lymphoproliferation occurring 6 months after initiation of fingolimod. Based on a systematic literature review, the characteristics of these fingolimod-induced lymphoproliferative disorders are described. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A 56-year-old woman developed cutaneous indurated and ulcerated nodular lesions 6 months after starting fingolimod for active relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Histological examination of a punch biopsy sample demonstrated a polymorphous dermal infiltrate containing large atypical CD30+ cells, leading to diagnosis of primary cutaneous CD30+ anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. Chest-abdomen-pelvis CT scans were performed to rule out secondary cutaneous anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. Spontaneous clinical regression was observed and after assessing the benefit/risk ratio, it was decided to continue fingolimod under strict surveillance, with no relapse occurring by month 18. DISCUSSION: A systematic review of PUBMED/Medline and Embase identified seven other cases of lymphoproliferative disorders occurring during fingolimod treatment, including two other cases of primitive cutaneous CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders. CONCLUSION: Even if cutaneous CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders occur only rarely during fingolimod treatment, dermatologists should nevertheless be aware of this association for which strict dermatological surveillance is required. We would also stress that these CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders can disappear spontaneously, as in our case, even if treatment by fingolimod is continued.
29108927	Pemetrexed	Pneumonia	1	0	0	0		Pemetrexed-induced organizing pneumonia in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma.	
28957896	Deoxyribonuclease I	Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Diffuse Alveolar Hemorrhage as a Complication of Intrapleural Fibrinolytic Therapy.	
28412997	Imiquimod	Lupus Erythematosus, Cutaneous	0	0	0	0		Erythematous Lesion on the Nose.	
28069335	Ertapenem	Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Ertapenem-induced neurological toxicity in a patient with stage IV chronic kidney disease.	
30382069	Nivolumab	Skin Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Predictors of Nivolumab-Induced Skin Reactions].	Skin reactions to nivolumab are typical immune-related adverse events. We investigated the relation between patient background and test values before nivolumab administration and skin reactions. From February 2016 to February 2017, we evaluated the clinical outcomes of 21 patients who were administered nivolumab. Patients were divided into 2 groups: 3 cases of skin reactions to nivolumab(skin reaction group)and 18 cases without skin reactions to nivolumab(non-skin reaction group). In the skin reaction group, the numbers of eosinophils and basophils before nivolumab administration were significantly higher than those in the non-skin reaction group(p=0.0015 and p=0.0075, respectively). It was suggested that the numbers of eosinophils or basophils before nivolumab administration might be associated with the appearance of skin reactions.
30382040	Panitumumab	Water-Electrolyte Imbalance	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Retrospective Investigation of the Risk Factors for Severity in Panitumumab-Induced Hypomagnesemia].	Hypomagnesemia caused by panitumumab can often lead to severe adverse effects, such as arrhythmia. However, the risk factors are still controversial. To clarify the risk factors and time to onset of panitumumab-induced hypomagnesemia, we retrospectively investigated the records of 30 patients who had received panitumumab. They were divided into Grade B2 hypomagnesemia and non-Grade B2 hypomagnesemia groups, according to their serum magnesium levels, and we compared patients' backgrounds, laboratory values, and concomitant drugs between the 2 groups. Univariate analysis revealed that hypocalcemia and non-administration of an oral magnesium preparation were significantly associated with Grade B2 hypomagnesemia induced by panitumumab. Incipient grade 1 hypocalcemia was observed after incipient Grade 1 hypomagnesemia in both groups. The occurrence of these complications was significant in the Grade B2 hypomagnesemia group. Thereafter, in all patients of the Grade B2 hypomagnesemia group that exhibited both complications, hypomagnesemia developed to Grade 2 or higher. The development of Grade 3 and Grade 4 hypomagnesemia without the development of Grade 2 hypomagnesemia was observed in 2 patients each. Thus, aggravation of hypomagnesemia can be expected upon the administration of panitumumab, and therefore, not only serum magnesium levels, but also serum calcium levels need to be monitored.
30344142	Mirtazapine	Feeding and Eating Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sleep-related eating disorder with mirtazapine.	Sleep-related eating disorder (SRED) is classified within parasomnia and is characterised by recurrent episodes of abnormal, dysfunctional eating during sleep. This report describes a case of SRED in a 19-year-old woman admitted to the psychiatric ward with worsening anxiety, low mood and suicidal ideation. She was started on low-dose mirtazapine for mood stabilisation and, following an incremental increase to 30 mg, she developed nocturnal binge eating of which she retained only partial memory on waking. She developed adverse health consequences as a result of these recurrent episodes. The subject's symptoms were relieved rapidly following reduction of the dose of mirtazapine back to 15 mg.
30344142	Mirtazapine	Parasomnias	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sleep-related eating disorder with mirtazapine.	Sleep-related eating disorder (SRED) is classified within parasomnia and is characterised by recurrent episodes of abnormal, dysfunctional eating during sleep. This report describes a case of SRED in a 19-year-old woman admitted to the psychiatric ward with worsening anxiety, low mood and suicidal ideation. She was started on low-dose mirtazapine for mood stabilisation and, following an incremental increase to 30 mg, she developed nocturnal binge eating of which she retained only partial memory on waking. She developed adverse health consequences as a result of these recurrent episodes. The subject's symptoms were relieved rapidly following reduction of the dose of mirtazapine back to 15 mg.
30261569	Levofloxacin	Hyperpigmentation	1	1	0	0	1.0	Brown-gray hyperpigmentation in a photosensitive distribution after levofloxacin exposure.	Photosensitive drug reactions resulting in hyperpigmentation occur when there is an accumulation in the skin of melanin, heavy metals, or the drug itself. Herein we describe an immunocompromised orthotopic liver transplant patient with levofloxacin-induced hyperpigmentation with iron deposition. To identify the causal agent, consideration was given to medications the patient had taken long-term, as well as medications introduced more recently before the event. Levofloxacin and posaconzole emerged as the most likely culprit drugs, neither of which have a strong history in the literature of being associated with photosensitive hyperpigmentation. Levofloxacin was determined to be the culprit drug when the hyperpigmentation gradually resolved several weeks after discontinuation of levofloxacin, with continuation of posaconazole and all other long-term medications. This case highlights the challenges in identifying the causal agent in photosensitive drug reactions when patients are taking multiple medications. Key clinical data can be very helpful in making an assessment.
30261569	Levofloxacin	Photosensitivity Disorders	1	1	0	0	1.0	Brown-gray hyperpigmentation in a photosensitive distribution after levofloxacin exposure.	Photosensitive drug reactions resulting in hyperpigmentation occur when there is an accumulation in the skin of melanin, heavy metals, or the drug itself. Herein we describe an immunocompromised orthotopic liver transplant patient with levofloxacin-induced hyperpigmentation with iron deposition. To identify the causal agent, consideration was given to medications the patient had taken long-term, as well as medications introduced more recently before the event. Levofloxacin and posaconzole emerged as the most likely culprit drugs, neither of which have a strong history in the literature of being associated with photosensitive hyperpigmentation. Levofloxacin was determined to be the culprit drug when the hyperpigmentation gradually resolved several weeks after discontinuation of levofloxacin, with continuation of posaconazole and all other long-term medications. This case highlights the challenges in identifying the causal agent in photosensitive drug reactions when patients are taking multiple medications. Key clinical data can be very helpful in making an assessment.
29603193	Ustekinumab	Skin Diseases, Infectious	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous protothecosis in a patient on ustekinumab for psoriasis.	
29338540	Bortezomib	Leukopenia	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of frontline rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone plus bortezomib (VR-CAP) or vincristine (R-CHOP) in a subset of newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma patients medically eligible for transplantation in the randomized, phase 3 LYM-3002 study.	This post-hoc subanalysis of the LYM-3002 phase 3 study assessed the efficacy and safety of substituting vincristine in rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and prednisone (R-CHOP; n = 42) for bortezomib (VR-CAP; n = 38) in a subgroup of 80 mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients aged <60 years who did not receive stem cell transplantation (SCT) despite medical eligibility. Complete response (CR)/unconfirmed CR (CRu) rates were 67 vs. 39% (odds ratio 3.69 [95% CI(confidence interval): 1.31, 10.41]; p = .012). After 40 months median follow-up, median progression-free survival by independent radiology committee with VR-CAP vs. R-CHOP was 32.6 vs. 12.0 months (hazard ratio (HR) 0.59 [95% CI: 0.31, 1.13]; p = .108); median overall survival was not reached vs. 47.3 months (HR 0.81 [95% CI: 0.33, 1.96]; p = .634). Adverse events included neutropenia (92/76%), thrombocytopenia (70/10%) and leukopenia (65/50%). VR-CAP represents a potential alternative to R-CHOP in combined and/or alternating regimens for younger, SCT-eligible MCL patients.
29076157	Polyethylene Glycols	Darier Disease	1	0	0	0		Exacerbation of Darier disease by peg-interferon beta-1a in a patient suffering from multiple sclerosis.	
28960262	Capecitabine	Nevus, Pigmented	0	0	0	0		Eruptive nevi in a patient with metastatic breast cancer.	
28960262	Capecitabine	Skin Neoplasms	0	0	0	0		Eruptive nevi in a patient with metastatic breast cancer.	
28792264	Lenalidomide	Ectromelia	0	0	0	0		False-positive pregnancy tests in females of reproductive potential receiving lenalidomide in the United States.	
28439970	Dasatinib	Lymphadenopathy	1	0	0	0		Dasatinib-associated follicular lymphoid hyperplasia: First pediatric case report and literature review.	
28244137	Terbinafine	Erythema	1	0	0	0		Symmetrical drug-related intertriginous and flexural erythema (Baboon syndrome) induced by simultaneous exposure to oral and topical terbinafine.	
28244062	Vemurafenib	Panniculitis	1	0	0	0		Neutrophilic panniculitis with vasculitis in a melanoma patient treated with vemurafenib: a case report and its management.	
28244062	Vemurafenib	Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Neutrophilic panniculitis with vasculitis in a melanoma patient treated with vemurafenib: a case report and its management.	
28102540	Nivolumab	Radiodermatitis	1	0	0	0		Radiation recall dermatitis associated with nivolumab for metastatic malignant melanoma.	
30471051	Levetiracetam	Anxiety	0	1	0	0		Antiepileptic and psychiatric medication in a nationwide cohort of patients with glioma WHO grade II-IV.	INTRODUCTION: Glioma is the most common intracranial primary brain tumor. Patients with glioma often suffer from epilepsy, anxiety and depression. Aims of this study were to identify risk factors for drug-treated anxiety and depression, and to determine the use of psychiatric medication in a national glioma cohort. METHODS: Data from the Cancer Registry of Norway on all persons diagnosed with glioma WHO grade II-IV 2004-2010 were linked with data from the Norwegian Prescription Database. Cox regression analysis was used to assess risk factors for drug-treated anxiety and depression. Standardized incidence ratios were calculated for psychiatric medication dispensed to glioma patients and compared to the general population. RESULTS: The glioma cohort consisted of 1056 males and 772 females. Of the 1828 patients, 565 had glioma grade II-III, and 1263 had grade IV. The patients with glioma grade II-III who were treated with levetiracetam had an increased risk for drug-treated anxiety compared to patients without levetiracetam; hazard ratio 2.8 (95% confidence interval 1.7-4.9). Female gender increased the risk for drug-treated anxiety compared to males in patients with glioma grade IV; hazard ratio 1.5 (95% confidence interval 1.2-2.0). Antidepressants were less frequently dispensed to patients with glioma grade II-III and epilepsy than to the general population. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with glioma grade II-III on levetiracetam had an increased risk for drug-treated anxiety. The subgroup of patients with glioma grade II-III and epilepsy received less antidepressants than the general population.
30471051	Levetiracetam	Depression	0	1	0	0		Antiepileptic and psychiatric medication in a nationwide cohort of patients with glioma WHO grade II-IV.	INTRODUCTION: Glioma is the most common intracranial primary brain tumor. Patients with glioma often suffer from epilepsy, anxiety and depression. Aims of this study were to identify risk factors for drug-treated anxiety and depression, and to determine the use of psychiatric medication in a national glioma cohort. METHODS: Data from the Cancer Registry of Norway on all persons diagnosed with glioma WHO grade II-IV 2004-2010 were linked with data from the Norwegian Prescription Database. Cox regression analysis was used to assess risk factors for drug-treated anxiety and depression. Standardized incidence ratios were calculated for psychiatric medication dispensed to glioma patients and compared to the general population. RESULTS: The glioma cohort consisted of 1056 males and 772 females. Of the 1828 patients, 565 had glioma grade II-III, and 1263 had grade IV. The patients with glioma grade II-III who were treated with levetiracetam had an increased risk for drug-treated anxiety compared to patients without levetiracetam; hazard ratio 2.8 (95% confidence interval 1.7-4.9). Female gender increased the risk for drug-treated anxiety compared to males in patients with glioma grade IV; hazard ratio 1.5 (95% confidence interval 1.2-2.0). Antidepressants were less frequently dispensed to patients with glioma grade II-III and epilepsy than to the general population. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with glioma grade II-III on levetiracetam had an increased risk for drug-treated anxiety. The subgroup of patients with glioma grade II-III and epilepsy received less antidepressants than the general population.
30427704	Triclosan	Carcinogenesis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Consumer Antimicrobials on Gut Microbiota and Gut Health.	Triclosan (TCS) is a high-volume chemical used as an antimicrobial ingredient in over 2000 consumer products such as toothpastes, cosmetics, and toys. Due to its widespread use, it causes ubiquitous contamination in the environment and is frequently detected in the human body, raising concerns about its impact on environmental pollution and human health. Our recent study showed that short-time exposure to low-dose TCS causes colonic inflammation, increases severity of colitis, and exacerbates colitis-associated colon tumorigenesis in mice, through gut microbiota- and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-dependent mechanisms. In addition, we demonstrate that beyond TCS, other antimicrobial chemicals used in consumer products also exaggerate colitis and colon cancer in mice. Together, these results highlight the importance to further evaluate these consumer antimicrobials on gut health, to develop potential further regulatory policies.
30427704	Triclosan	Colitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Consumer Antimicrobials on Gut Microbiota and Gut Health.	Triclosan (TCS) is a high-volume chemical used as an antimicrobial ingredient in over 2000 consumer products such as toothpastes, cosmetics, and toys. Due to its widespread use, it causes ubiquitous contamination in the environment and is frequently detected in the human body, raising concerns about its impact on environmental pollution and human health. Our recent study showed that short-time exposure to low-dose TCS causes colonic inflammation, increases severity of colitis, and exacerbates colitis-associated colon tumorigenesis in mice, through gut microbiota- and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-dependent mechanisms. In addition, we demonstrate that beyond TCS, other antimicrobial chemicals used in consumer products also exaggerate colitis and colon cancer in mice. Together, these results highlight the importance to further evaluate these consumer antimicrobials on gut health, to develop potential further regulatory policies.
30375126	Cefepime	Brain Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cefepime-induced encephalopathy: Neural mass modeling of triphasic wave-like generalized periodic discharges with a high negative component (Tri-HNC).	AIM: Cefepime, a fourth-generation cephalosporin, acts as a GABA(A) receptor antagonist. Cefepime-induced encephalopathy (CIE) is frequently overlooked. We aimed to clarify the clinical features, characteristic electroencephalography (EEG), and mechanisms of CIE to aid in its early recognition. METHODS: CIE cases documented by a single-center consultation-liaison team between April 2015 and March 2017 were retrospectively reviewed. For further investigation, neural mass modeling was performed in silico. RESULTS: Three patients with CIE refused medication/examination and showed overt pain, palilalia, and much greater deterioration of eye and verbal response than the motor response, which was possibly related to GABAergic dysfunction. Triphasic wave-like generalized periodic discharges with a high negative component (Tri-HNC) were identified on the EEG of all three cases. The simulation reproduced the characteristic feature of 2-3 Hz Tri-HNC and recovery course on EEG, and a possible involvement of individual differences in pharmacological intervention. It also suggested that auto-inhibition (synaptic inputs from interneuron to interneuron) dysregulation contributed to generating Tri-HNC in CIE. CONCLUSION: As CIE is iatrogenic and continues unless cefepime is stopped, early recognition is crucial. Physicians should be vigilant about altered mental status, pain, and verbal changes in patients taking cefepime. Tri-HNC on EEG can expedite the diagnosis of CIE, and the association between Tri-HNC and CIE suggests that an excitatory and inhibitory imbalance due to the dysfunction of GABAergic interneurons is the underlying mechanism. This modeling may offer a new method of investigating disorders related to GABAergic dysfunction.
30343188	Tetanus Toxoid	Eosinophilia	1	1	1	1	1.0	A case of biopsy-proven eosinophilic myocarditis related to tetanus toxoid immunization.	Vaccine-associated myocarditis is an extremely rare, yet potentially lethal disease, which requires early diagnosis and prompt treatment. However, its pathogenesis remains elusive. We report the first case of biopsy-proven eosinophilic myocarditis related to tetanus toxoid immunization, with unique histopathologic findings, characterized by perivascular eosinophilic infiltrates with myocyte necrosis and abundant interstitial lymphocytic infiltrates with myocyte necrosis, separately. A systemic high-dose corticosteroid treatment had a dramatic beneficial effect on hemodynamic instability and resulted in complete recovery. This case highlights the value of endomyocardial biopsy in establishing a definite diagnosis and understanding the pathogenesis of vaccine-associated myocarditis.
30334068	Lenalidomide	Venous Thrombosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Frequency of venous thrombotic events in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome and 5q deletion syndrome during lenalidomide therapy.	Lenalidomide is known to increase the risk of venous thromboembolism in patients with hematologic malignancies. The role of antithrombotic prophylaxis in patients receiving lenalidomide is well established in multiple myeloma. However, when used in patients with a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)-in particular, del(5q) patients-the risk of venous thromboembolism and the need for anticoagulation are unknown. We performed a retrospective for MDS patients with 5q deletion. The total number of patients was 64, and 24 (38%) were treated with lenalidomide. Of those who received lenalidomide, venous thrombotic events (VTE) occurred in 4 (17%). All events occurred after 1 year of lenalidomide therapy. Although limited by the cohort size, concurrent erythropoietin-stimulating agents (ESAs) were not associated with increased thrombotic events, and the diagnosis of VTE did not affect survival. Our data suggest an increased incidence of VTE with prolonged lenalidomide treatment, mainly if MDS responds to this therapy.
30311026	Nivolumab	Panuveitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Recurrent grade 4 panuveitis with serous retinal detachment related to nivolumab treatment in a patient with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.	Blockade of programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) has become one of the most promising immunotherapies for many human cancers. However, immune-related adverse events can be produced by anti-PD-1 therapy. Uveitis is a rare but potentially devastating side effect of anti-PD-1 therapy. Delay in diagnosis or improper treatment may eventually lead to irreversible blindness. Therefore, it is important for the oncologist and the ophthalmologist to recognize and manage this adverse event properly in patients receiving anti-PD-1 therapy in a timely manner. Here we present a grade 4 panuveitis with bilateral serous retinal detachment following treatment with nivolumab for metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Oral prednisone, topical steroid eye drops, periorbital injection of steroid and finally intravitreal injection of steroid implant were administered in our patient. We observed that intravitreal injection of dexamethasone implant, but not the periorbital injection of steroid or the steroid eye drops, was effective to control the posterior uveitis and serous retinal detachment. Oral prednisone was also effective, but it might affect the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy and promote tumor growth. We also summarize 15 cases of uveitis reported to date related to nivolumab or pembrolizumab therapy in the present study. The symptoms, signs, potential underlying mechanisms and treatment options regarding this adverse event are discussed.
30260497	Dacarbazine	Chromosome Aberrations	1	1	0	0	0.0	Genomic chaos in peripheral blood lymphocytes of Hodgkin's lymphoma patients one year after ABVD chemotherapy/radiotherapy.	Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) is a lymphoid malignancy representing 5% of all cancers in children, 16% in adolescents, and 30-40% of all malignant lymphomas and has a survival rate of ~95% at 10 years. One of the most common treatment schemes uses a cocktail of genotoxic agents including adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) with or without radiotherapy. We investigated the occurrence of chromosomal damage in peripheral blood lymphocytes from five patients diagnosed with HL who provided samples before (BT), during chemotherapy (DT) and ~1 year after ABVD chemotherapy/radiotherapy (AT). Five healthy subjects served as controls. Chromosomal abnormalities were evaluated by multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization. The average frequencies of structural chromosomal aberrations in HL samples were 0.11, 0.22, and 0.96 per cell in BT, DT, and AT samples, respectively. These frequencies were significantly different (P < 0.0001) with respect to control subjects (0.02 per cell). Interestingly, the highest frequency of structural damage, including genomic chaos and nonclonal abnormalities, was observed in the AT samples indicating that new aberrations were continuously produced. Rejoined structural chromosomal aberrations were the most common type of aberrations, although aneuploidies were also significantly increased. Finally, we found several chromosomal abnormalities linked to cancer secondary to treatment in all five HL patients. Our results show that ABVD chemotherapy plus radiotherapy is inducing genomic chaos in vivo; moreover, the persistence of genomic instability in the hematopoietic stem cells from HL patients may play a role in the occurrence of secondary cancer that is observed in 5-20% of HL patients. Environ. Mol. Mutagen. 59:755-768, 2018. (c) 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
30213607	Dabigatran	Choroid Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage associated with novel oral anticoagulants: A report of two cases and literature review].	New direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) have been approved for treatment and prevention of some thromboembolic diseases: acute and chronic phase of thromboembolic disease, deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis in orthopedic surgery and prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. These molecules are an alternative to heparins and vitamin K antagonists. Among these, rivaroxaban (Xarelto((R)), Bayer Schering Pharma) is a direct factor Xa inhibitor, and dabigatran etexilate (Pradaxa((R)), Boehringer Ingelheim) is a direct free thrombin inhibitor. These molecules are almost the ideal anticoagulant: oral administration, few drug and food interactions, wide therapeutic target, and especially no lab monitoring. However, their use remains associated with hemorrhagic complications such as gastrointestinal, intracranial or urinary hemorrhages. We describe two clinical cases of spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage in patients treated with direct oral anticoagulants (rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate) for atrial fibrillation. These cases show that an ocular hemorrhagic risk exists with these drugs. Patients treated with DOAC should have the therapeutic dose adjusted based on creatinine clearance. Special monitoring should be performed in patients with age-related macular degeneration or with hypertension even though meta-analysis shows that the risk of intraocular bleeding is reduced by 22% compared with warfarin.
30113432	Nivolumab	Pancreatitis	1	0	0	0		Anti-PD-1 Drug (Nivolumab) May Induce Acute and Life-Threatening Pancreatitis in Lung Cancer Patient: A Case Report.	
30033485	Idarubicin	Pulmonary Aspergillosis	1	0	0	0		(1-3)-beta-D-Glucan serum increase and small-airway-invasive radiological findings as early signs of pulmonary aspergillosis in high-risk hematologic patients in the posaconazole era: preliminary observations.	
30033485	Vidarabine	Pulmonary Aspergillosis	1	0	0	0		(1-3)-beta-D-Glucan serum increase and small-airway-invasive radiological findings as early signs of pulmonary aspergillosis in high-risk hematologic patients in the posaconazole era: preliminary observations.	
30032359	Tamoxifen	Osteoporotic Fractures	0	1	0	0		The tamoxifen paradox-influence of adjuvant tamoxifen on fracture risk in pre- and postmenopausal women with breast cancer.	Our data demonstrate that tamoxifen does not reduce fracture risk. Close surveillance is necessary to prevent bone loss in premenopausal women with breast cancer upon treatment initiation. INTRODUCTION: Endocrine treatment of breast cancer may interfere with bone turnover and influence fracture risk. METHODS: Out of a cohort of almost 5 million patients in total, we identified 5520 women between 18 and 90 years of age with breast cancer receiving tamoxifen, matched them with 5520 healthy controls using the Disease Analyzer Database, and investigated the fracture risk. RESULTS: We found a cumulative incidence of fractures of 6.3% in patients aged between 18 and 50 years (n = 3634) treated with tamoxifen versus a cumulative incidence of 3.6% in the control group (p < 0.001). As such, the risk of fracture was 75% higher for patients receiving tamoxifen than that for healthy controls (HR 1.75; 95% CI 1.25-2.48). With regard to patients aged between 55 and 90 years (n = 7406), the cumulative incidence of fractures in patients treated with tamoxifen was 10.1% compared to 9.3% in the control group (p = 0.740), i.e., there was no significant difference between the two groups (HR 0.97; 95% CI 0.81-1.16). CONCLUSIONS: Compared to healthy controls, premenopausal women with breast cancer treated with tamoxifen showed an increased risk of fracture, while postmenopausal women on tamoxifen did not show any risk reduction.
30028446	Temozolomide	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		Safety and Feasibility of Integrating Yttrium-90 Radioembolization With Capecitabine-Temozolomide for Grade 2 Liver-Dominant Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors.	OBJECTIVES: An integrated protocol combining capecitibine-temozolomide with yttrium-90 radioembolization (CapTemY90) for liver-dominant grade 2 neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) was designed in the hope of achieving synergistic improvement in liver disease control with no more than additive toxicities. This report describes the feasibility and safety of this regimen. METHODS: Twenty-one patients with unresectable grade 2 NET liver-dominant metastases without contraindications to radioembolization or to CapTem initiated therapy with capecitabine 600 mg/m twice daily for 14 days and temozolomide 150 to 200 mg/m in 2 divided doses on days 10 to 14, with 14 days between cycles. During the first cycle, simulation angiography was performed. The dominant lobe was radioembolized on day 7 of the second cycle. In patients with bilobar disease, the other lobe was treated on day 7 of the third or fourth cycle. RESULTS: Nineteen of 21 patients completed the protocol. Adverse events were as expected. Objective response rate was 74% in the liver and 55% for extrahepatic tumor. Median progression-free survival was not reached. Progression-free survival at 3 years was 67%, with 74% progression-free in the liver. CONCLUSIONS: CapTemY90 is feasible and safe for grade 2 NETs. Toxicities were additive. Oncologic outcomes suggest synergy.
30027438	Insulin	Osteoporotic Fractures	0	0	0	0		The effect of metformin versus placebo in combination with insulin analogues on bone mineral density and trabecular bone score in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.	Some antihyperglycemic medications have been found to affect bone metabolism. We assessed the long-term effects of metformin compared with placebo on bone mineral density (BMD) and trabecular bone score (TBS) in patients with type 2 diabetes. Metformin had no significant effect on BMD in the spine and hip or TBS compared with a placebo. INTRODUCTION: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have an increased risk of fractures despite a high bone mass. Some antihyperglycemic medications have been found to affect bone metabolism. We assessed the long-term effects of metformin compared with placebo on bone mineral density (BMD) and trabecular bone score (TBS). METHODS: This was a sub-study of a multicenter, randomized, 18-month placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial with metformin vs. placebo in combination with different insulin regimens (the Copenhagen Insulin and Metformin Therapy trial) in patients with T2DM. BMD in the spine and hip and TBS in the spine were assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at baseline and after 18 months follow-up. RESULTS: Four hundred seven patients were included in this sub-study. There were no between-group differences in BMD or TBS. From baseline to 18 months, TBS decreased significantly in both groups (metformin group, - 0.041 [- 0.055, - 0.027]; placebo group - 0.046 [- 0.058, - 0.034]; both p < 0.001). BMD in the spine and total hip did not change significantly from baseline to 18 months. After adjustments for gender, age, vitamin D, smoking, BMI, duration of T2DM, HbA1c, and insulin dose, the TBS between-group differences increased but remained non-significant. HbA(1c) was negatively associated with TBS (p = 0.009) as was longer duration of diabetes, with the femoral neck BMD (p = 0.003). Body mass index had a positive effect on the hip and femoral neck BMD (p < 0.001, p = 0.045, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Eighteen months of treatment with metformin had no significant effect on BMD in the spine and hip or TBS in patients with T2DM compared with a placebo. TBS decreased significantly in both groups. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00657943).
30027438	Metformin	Osteoporotic Fractures	0	0	0	0		The effect of metformin versus placebo in combination with insulin analogues on bone mineral density and trabecular bone score in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a randomized placebo-controlled trial.	Some antihyperglycemic medications have been found to affect bone metabolism. We assessed the long-term effects of metformin compared with placebo on bone mineral density (BMD) and trabecular bone score (TBS) in patients with type 2 diabetes. Metformin had no significant effect on BMD in the spine and hip or TBS compared with a placebo. INTRODUCTION: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have an increased risk of fractures despite a high bone mass. Some antihyperglycemic medications have been found to affect bone metabolism. We assessed the long-term effects of metformin compared with placebo on bone mineral density (BMD) and trabecular bone score (TBS). METHODS: This was a sub-study of a multicenter, randomized, 18-month placebo-controlled, double-blinded trial with metformin vs. placebo in combination with different insulin regimens (the Copenhagen Insulin and Metformin Therapy trial) in patients with T2DM. BMD in the spine and hip and TBS in the spine were assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at baseline and after 18 months follow-up. RESULTS: Four hundred seven patients were included in this sub-study. There were no between-group differences in BMD or TBS. From baseline to 18 months, TBS decreased significantly in both groups (metformin group, - 0.041 [- 0.055, - 0.027]; placebo group - 0.046 [- 0.058, - 0.034]; both p < 0.001). BMD in the spine and total hip did not change significantly from baseline to 18 months. After adjustments for gender, age, vitamin D, smoking, BMI, duration of T2DM, HbA1c, and insulin dose, the TBS between-group differences increased but remained non-significant. HbA(1c) was negatively associated with TBS (p = 0.009) as was longer duration of diabetes, with the femoral neck BMD (p = 0.003). Body mass index had a positive effect on the hip and femoral neck BMD (p < 0.001, p = 0.045, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Eighteen months of treatment with metformin had no significant effect on BMD in the spine and hip or TBS in patients with T2DM compared with a placebo. TBS decreased significantly in both groups. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00657943).
29936503	Theophylline	Shock	1	1	0	0	0.0	Atrial Fibrillation and Shock: Unmasking Theophylline Toxicity.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this report is to describe a case of atrial fibrillation and shock precipitated by deliberate self-poisoning with theophylline. CLINICAL PRESENTATION AND INTERVENTION: An 85-year-old male with severe theophylline intoxication in a suicide attempt was admitted with severe cardiac arrhythmia and shock; despite poor prognosis, he fully recovered gradually after proper diagnosis and treatment. Theophylline is a rather forgotten medication; thus, intoxication is not usually considered among the etiologies of potentially treatable cardiologic emergencies, especially when its use is intentionally concealed. CONCLUSION: This case highlights the importance of identifying a comprehensive medication history using all available sources of information as early as possible in an emergency department presentation.
29538615	Benzene	Carcinogenesis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adductomic signatures of benzene exposure provide insights into cancer induction.	Although benzene has long been recognized as a cause of human leukemia, the mechanism by which this simple molecule causes cancer has been problematic. A complicating factor is benzene metabolism, which produces many reactive intermediates, some specific to benzene and others derived from redox processes. Using archived serum from 20 nonsmoking Chinese workers, 10 with and 10 without occupational exposure to benzene (exposed: 3.2-88.9 ppm, controls: 0.002-0.020 ppm), we employed an adductomic pipeline to characterize protein modifications at Cys34 of human serum albumin, a nucleophilic hotspot in extracellular fluids. Of the 47 measured human serum albumin modifications, 39 were present at higher concentrations in benzene-exposed workers than in controls and many of the exposed-control differences were statistically significant. Correlation analysis identified three prominent clusters of adducts, namely putative modifications by benzene oxide and a benzene diolepoxide that grouped with other measures of benzene exposure, adducts of reactive oxygen and carbonyl species, and Cys34 disulfides of small thiols that are formed following oxidation of Cys34. Benzene diolepoxides are potent mutagens and carcinogens that have received little attention as potential causes of human leukemia. Reactive oxygen and carbonyl species-generated by redox processes involving polyphenolic benzene metabolites and by Cyp2E1 regulation following benzene exposure-can modify DNA and proteins in ways that contribute to cancer. The fact that these diverse human serum albumin modifications differed between benzene-exposed and control workers suggests that benzene can increase leukemia risks via multiple pathways involving a constellation of reactive molecules.
29421936	Naproxen	Heart Diseases	0	0	0	0		Cardiorenal Safety of OTC Analgesics.	"Over-the-counter analgesics are used globally for the relief of acute pain. Although effective, these agents can be associated with adverse effects that may limit their use in some people. In the early 2000s, observations from clinical trials of prescription-strength and supratherapeutic doses of nonselective and cyclooxygenase-2-selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) raised safety concerns regarding the risk of cardiovascular adverse effects with the use of these medications. Subsequently, the US Food and Drug Administration mandated additional study of the cardiovascular safety of NSAIDs for a more comprehensive understanding of their risk. As these data were being collected, and based on a comprehensive review of prescription data and the recommendations of the US Food and Drug Administration Advisory Committee, the warning labels of over-the-counter NSAIDs were updated to emphasize the potential cardiovascular risks of these agents. The recently reported ""Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety versus Ibuprofen or Naproxen"" (PRECISION) trial, in which participants with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis and underlying cardiovascular risk factors were treated with prescription-strength celecoxib, ibuprofen, or naproxen, revealed similar rates of cardiovascular events (death from cardiovascular causes including hemorrhagic death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke) among the 3 treatment groups. Although informative, the cardiovascular safety findings derived from PRECISION cannot be extrapolated to the safety of the over-the-counter pain relievers ibuprofen and naproxen, given that the doses used were higher (mean [standard deviation]: ibuprofen, 2045 [246] mg; naproxen, 852 [103] mg) and the durations of use longer ( approximately 20 months) than recommended with over-the-counter use of NSAIDs, which for ibuprofen is up to 10 days. This review discusses the cardiorenal safety of the most commonly used over-the-counter analgesics, ibuprofen, naproxen, and acetaminophen. Available data suggest that there is little cardiovascular risk when over-the-counter formulations of these agents are used as directed in their labels."
29384034	Nivolumab	Disease Susceptibility	1	0	0	0		Development of pulmonary tuberculosis following treatment with anti-PD-1 for non-small cell lung cancer.	
29283012	Paclitaxel	Joint Diseases	1	0	0	0		PATEO syndrome: periarticular thenar erythema with onycholysis.	
29248791	Imatinib Mesylate	Pericardial Effusion	1	0	0	0		Pleural and pericardial effusions in patient on tyrosine kinase inhibitor.	
28953189	Interferon alpha-2	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Transient Hypothyroidism and Autoimmune Thyroiditis in Children With Chronic Hepatitis C Treated With Pegylated-interferon-alpha-2b and Ribavirin.	BACKGROUND: Autoimmune thyroid disease and thyroid dysfunction are common in adults receiving interferon (IFN)-based treatment for chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Few data are available in children with CHC. This study is aimed to evaluate the appearance and timing of thyroid dysfunction and antithyroid autoimmunity in children with CHC treated with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and ribavirin (RBV). METHODS: Sixty-one otherwise healthy children with CHC, 3-17 years of age, infected perinatally and treatment naive, receiving therapy with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and RBV and 183 age- and sex-matched controls were included in a multicenter, prospective, case-control study. Thyroid-stimulating hormone, free thyroxine, antithyroglobulin antibodies and antithyroid peroxidase antibodies were assessed before, during and 24 weeks after the end of treatment. RESULTS: From baseline to the end of treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism and autoimmune thyroiditis were diagnosed in 17 of 61 (27.94%) and in 4 of 61 (6.6%) of the children treated, respectively, and in 5 of 183 (2.7%) and in none of the controls (P < 0.0001, relative risk: 10.2, 95% confidence interval: 3.9-26.5; P = 0.03, relative risk: 26.8, 95% confidence interval: 1.5-489.1, respectively). Twenty-four weeks after the end of treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism persisted in only 4 of 61 (6.6%). Autoimmune thyroiditis persisted in 3 of 4 (75%) of the cases. CONCLUSIONS: Subclinical hypothyroidism is common in children with CHC receiving treatment with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and RBV, but in most cases is transient. Autoimmune thyroiditis, which is less common, generally persists after treatment completion. Thyroid function should be carefully monitored in patients presenting with antithyroid autoantibodies and thyroid dysfunction during and after pegylated IFN-alpha-based treatment.
28953189	Interferon alpha-2	Thyroiditis, Autoimmune	1	1	0	0	0.0	Transient Hypothyroidism and Autoimmune Thyroiditis in Children With Chronic Hepatitis C Treated With Pegylated-interferon-alpha-2b and Ribavirin.	BACKGROUND: Autoimmune thyroid disease and thyroid dysfunction are common in adults receiving interferon (IFN)-based treatment for chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Few data are available in children with CHC. This study is aimed to evaluate the appearance and timing of thyroid dysfunction and antithyroid autoimmunity in children with CHC treated with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and ribavirin (RBV). METHODS: Sixty-one otherwise healthy children with CHC, 3-17 years of age, infected perinatally and treatment naive, receiving therapy with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and RBV and 183 age- and sex-matched controls were included in a multicenter, prospective, case-control study. Thyroid-stimulating hormone, free thyroxine, antithyroglobulin antibodies and antithyroid peroxidase antibodies were assessed before, during and 24 weeks after the end of treatment. RESULTS: From baseline to the end of treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism and autoimmune thyroiditis were diagnosed in 17 of 61 (27.94%) and in 4 of 61 (6.6%) of the children treated, respectively, and in 5 of 183 (2.7%) and in none of the controls (P < 0.0001, relative risk: 10.2, 95% confidence interval: 3.9-26.5; P = 0.03, relative risk: 26.8, 95% confidence interval: 1.5-489.1, respectively). Twenty-four weeks after the end of treatment, subclinical hypothyroidism persisted in only 4 of 61 (6.6%). Autoimmune thyroiditis persisted in 3 of 4 (75%) of the cases. CONCLUSIONS: Subclinical hypothyroidism is common in children with CHC receiving treatment with pegylated IFN-alpha-2b and RBV, but in most cases is transient. Autoimmune thyroiditis, which is less common, generally persists after treatment completion. Thyroid function should be carefully monitored in patients presenting with antithyroid autoantibodies and thyroid dysfunction during and after pegylated IFN-alpha-based treatment.
28793154	Thalidomide	Telangiectasis	1	0	0	0		Purpura Annularis Telangiectodes of Majocchi Associated With the Initiation and Rechallenge of Apremilast for Psoriasis Vulgaris.	
28547118	Capecitabine	Ileitis	1	0	0	0		Two Cases of Capecitabine-Induced Ileitis in Patients Treated with Radiochemotherapy to the Pelvis and Review of the Literature.	
28482780	Voriconazole	Hyponatremia	1	0	0	0		Voriconazole-induced hyponatraemia associated with homozygous CYP2C19*2 genotype.	
30127314	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Effect of Methylphenidate and Atomoxetine on Heart Rate and Systolic Blood Pressure in Young People and Adults with Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD): Systematic Review, Meta-Analysis, and Meta-Regression.	Objectives: This meta-analysis aims to study the effects of atomoxetine and methylphenidate on heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), and a number of adverse cardiac events on patients receiving treatment for attention-deficit hyperactive disorder (ADHD) in comparison to placebo and between atomoxetine and methylphenidate. Methods: We searched the following databases: PubMed, EMBASE, and ScienceDirect. Meta-analysis was performed on studies that examined the relationships between methylphenidate or atomoxetine and HR, SBP, as well as a number of adverse cardiac events. These studies were either placebo-controlled or comparison studies between methylphenidate and atomoxetine. Meta-regression identified patient- and treatment-related factors that may contribute to heterogeneity. Results: Twenty-two studies were included and the total number of participants was 46,107. Children/adolescents and adults treated with methylphenidate had more significant increases in post- vs. pre-treatment HR (p < 0.001) and SBP (p < 0.001) than those treated by placebo. Children and adolescents treated with atomoxetine had more significant increases post- vs. pre-treatment HR (p = 0.025) and SBP (p < 0.001) than those treated with methylphenidate. Meta-regression revealed mean age of participants, mean dose, and duration of atomoxetine and methylphenidate as significant moderators that explained heterogeneity. There were no differences in the number of adverse cardiac events between participants with methylphenidate treatment and placebo or atomoxetine. CONCLUSIONS: Children/adolescents and adults treated with methylphenidate resulted in significant increases in post- vs. pre-treatment HR and SBP as compared to placebo. Similarly, children and adolescents treated with atomoxetine had significant increases in post- vs. pre-treatment HR and SBP than those treated with methylphenidate. These findings have potential implications for continuous monitoring of HR and SBP throughout the course of treatment although the risk for adverse cardiac events were insignificant.
29938908	Olanzapine	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Atypical Antipsychotic Administration in Schizophrenic Patients Leads to Elevated Lipoprotein-Associated Phospholipase A2 Levels and Increased Cardiovascular Risk: A Retrospective Cohort Study.	The prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is higher in patients with schizophrenia than in the general population. We aimed to investigate whether atypical antipsychotics (AAP) increase the levels of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), thereby increasing the risk of CVD. The data were from inpatients aged 18-60 years with a diagnosis of schizophrenia according to ICD-10 at the Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical University who underwent physical examination between 1 October 2014 and 30 September 2016. A retrospective cohort study was used to analyse the correlation between AAP, Lp-PLA2 levels and the CVD risk (it was determined that Lp-PLA2 values >200 ng/mL were defined as high CVD risk) in patients treated with monotherapy, olanzapine, clozapine or quetiapine. Data were collected for 452 patients with eligible schizophrenia: 163 treated with clozapine, 186 treated with olanzapine, 47 treated with quetiapine and 56 receiving no medication. Compared with the no-medication patients, AAP administration in patients with olanzapine, clozapine or quetiapine had higher serum Lp-PLA2 levels when age, sex, BMI and fasting glucose level were matched. AAP were significantly associated with serum Lp-PLA2 level by Spearman's correlation coefficients. The results of logistic regression analysis showed that AAP administration was an independent factor of CVD risk when adjusted by potential confounding factors. This study is the first to confirm that AAP administration, especially clozapine and olanzapine, could increase Lp-PLA2 levels and CVD risk, independent of drug-induced weight gain in schizophrenia. The extent and the factors of increasing Lp-PLA2 level and CVD risk in olanzapine, clozapine and quetiapine are discrepant. The possible effects of AAP on Lp-PLA2 in schizophrenia patients are involved in pro-inflammatory cytokines and hormones.
29938908	Proline	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Atypical Antipsychotic Administration in Schizophrenic Patients Leads to Elevated Lipoprotein-Associated Phospholipase A2 Levels and Increased Cardiovascular Risk: A Retrospective Cohort Study.	The prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) is higher in patients with schizophrenia than in the general population. We aimed to investigate whether atypical antipsychotics (AAP) increase the levels of lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), thereby increasing the risk of CVD. The data were from inpatients aged 18-60 years with a diagnosis of schizophrenia according to ICD-10 at the Affiliated Brain Hospital of Nanjing Medical University who underwent physical examination between 1 October 2014 and 30 September 2016. A retrospective cohort study was used to analyse the correlation between AAP, Lp-PLA2 levels and the CVD risk (it was determined that Lp-PLA2 values >200 ng/mL were defined as high CVD risk) in patients treated with monotherapy, olanzapine, clozapine or quetiapine. Data were collected for 452 patients with eligible schizophrenia: 163 treated with clozapine, 186 treated with olanzapine, 47 treated with quetiapine and 56 receiving no medication. Compared with the no-medication patients, AAP administration in patients with olanzapine, clozapine or quetiapine had higher serum Lp-PLA2 levels when age, sex, BMI and fasting glucose level were matched. AAP were significantly associated with serum Lp-PLA2 level by Spearman's correlation coefficients. The results of logistic regression analysis showed that AAP administration was an independent factor of CVD risk when adjusted by potential confounding factors. This study is the first to confirm that AAP administration, especially clozapine and olanzapine, could increase Lp-PLA2 levels and CVD risk, independent of drug-induced weight gain in schizophrenia. The extent and the factors of increasing Lp-PLA2 level and CVD risk in olanzapine, clozapine and quetiapine are discrepant. The possible effects of AAP on Lp-PLA2 in schizophrenia patients are involved in pro-inflammatory cytokines and hormones.
29465362	Estradiol	Scleroderma, Systemic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of systemic sclerosis in transgender females: a case series and review of the literature.	OBJECTIVES: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic, autoimmune connective tissue disease with a female predominance. The reason for the female predilection in SSc may relate to the difference in hormones between the genders. There are no current data on the influence male-to-female sex transition may have in the development of SSc. We report three patients who developed SSc after initiating the transgender process, and review current literature in regards to transgender patients with connective tissue disease (CTD). METHODS: We describe the clinical features and disease course of three transgender patients who developed SSc after their transition from male-to-female, who presented to our centre. Two additional transgender cases de- scribed in the literature with CTD were included in this review. RESULTS: All three patients developed SSc after having started the hormonal therapy required to transition. Two patients had surgical procedures preceding their diagnosis of SSc. Antibody profile, time of onset and disease features differed among our patients. Hormonal therapies were continued in all patients and they received the standard therapy for SSc. One patient died from complications of her disease. Only two cases describing the development of CTD in transgender patients were identified in the literature and both of these patients were diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). CONCLUSIONS: This case series suggests that the hormonal modification as part of gender transition may be relevant in development of SSc. No further conclusions can be drawn on the continuation or not of HT.
29465362	Ethinyl Estradiol	Scleroderma, Systemic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of systemic sclerosis in transgender females: a case series and review of the literature.	OBJECTIVES: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic, autoimmune connective tissue disease with a female predominance. The reason for the female predilection in SSc may relate to the difference in hormones between the genders. There are no current data on the influence male-to-female sex transition may have in the development of SSc. We report three patients who developed SSc after initiating the transgender process, and review current literature in regards to transgender patients with connective tissue disease (CTD). METHODS: We describe the clinical features and disease course of three transgender patients who developed SSc after their transition from male-to-female, who presented to our centre. Two additional transgender cases de- scribed in the literature with CTD were included in this review. RESULTS: All three patients developed SSc after having started the hormonal therapy required to transition. Two patients had surgical procedures preceding their diagnosis of SSc. Antibody profile, time of onset and disease features differed among our patients. Hormonal therapies were continued in all patients and they received the standard therapy for SSc. One patient died from complications of her disease. Only two cases describing the development of CTD in transgender patients were identified in the literature and both of these patients were diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). CONCLUSIONS: This case series suggests that the hormonal modification as part of gender transition may be relevant in development of SSc. No further conclusions can be drawn on the continuation or not of HT.
29465362	Triptorelin Pamoate	Scleroderma, Systemic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of systemic sclerosis in transgender females: a case series and review of the literature.	OBJECTIVES: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a chronic, autoimmune connective tissue disease with a female predominance. The reason for the female predilection in SSc may relate to the difference in hormones between the genders. There are no current data on the influence male-to-female sex transition may have in the development of SSc. We report three patients who developed SSc after initiating the transgender process, and review current literature in regards to transgender patients with connective tissue disease (CTD). METHODS: We describe the clinical features and disease course of three transgender patients who developed SSc after their transition from male-to-female, who presented to our centre. Two additional transgender cases de- scribed in the literature with CTD were included in this review. RESULTS: All three patients developed SSc after having started the hormonal therapy required to transition. Two patients had surgical procedures preceding their diagnosis of SSc. Antibody profile, time of onset and disease features differed among our patients. Hormonal therapies were continued in all patients and they received the standard therapy for SSc. One patient died from complications of her disease. Only two cases describing the development of CTD in transgender patients were identified in the literature and both of these patients were diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). CONCLUSIONS: This case series suggests that the hormonal modification as part of gender transition may be relevant in development of SSc. No further conclusions can be drawn on the continuation or not of HT.
29066042	Hydrogen Peroxide	Eyelid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hydrogen-peroxide and silicone-hydrogel contact lenses: Worsening of external eye condition and tear film instability.	PURPOSE: The aim is discussing the origins of worsening of external eye condition (EEC) and of tear film (TF) instability after wear of silicone-hydrogel contact lenses (CLs) with hydrogen-peroxide (H(2)O(2)) care system. METHODS: EEC and TF stability were evaluated before and after 15days of wear combined with different care systems: (1) H(2)O(2), (2) detergent solution and H(2)O(2), (3) multipurpose solution (MPS), (4) H(2)O(2) and artificial tears. In-vitro cell mortality tests were performed after 24h cell incubation with CLs treated with H(2)O(2). Photon correlation spectroscopy (PCS) was carried out on tears of non-wearers and CL wearers who used MPS or H(2)O(2) solution. RESULTS: Worsening of EEC was observed only for the group using H(2)O(2) (group 1). In-vitro, cell mortality was found higher for worn CL than for unworn CLs. Worsening of TF stability was observed regardless of care system and also PCS results on tears of CL wearers were found different compared to non-wearers regardless of care system. The only observed remedy for tear instability of CL wearers was found to be the administration of artificial tears. CONCLUSIONS: Worsening of EEC of CL wearers using H(2)O(2) is attributed to H(2)O(2) scarce cleaning efficacy, which can be solved by adding a CL detergent solution. The origin of TF instability is found to be different. A remedy was found to be the administration of artificial tears, whose effect could be attributed either to the role of specific components or to rinsing and replacement of TF during wear.
30653088	Olanzapine	Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders	0	0	0	0		Switching to paliperidone extended release in patients with schizophrenia dissatisfied with previous olanzapine treatment: Post hoc analysis of an open-label, prospective study.	OBJECTIVE: This post hoc analysis of an open-label, single-arm, multicenter study was designed to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of paliperidone extended release (ER) in Chinese patients with non-acute schizophrenia, after switching from olanzapine. METHODS: Patients with schizophrenia who were dissatisfied with prior olanzapine treatment switched to flexible paliperidone ER (3-12 mg/day) based on clinical judgment. Change from baseline to week 12 in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores (primary endpoint), PANSS subscale scores, response rate, Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) score, personal and social performance (PSP) scores, patient satisfaction with treatment score, change in sleep quality, level of daytime sleepiness and safety were evaluated. RESULTS: Out of 118 enrolled patients, 95 (81%) completed the study. Mean duration of study was 76.9 (23.85) days. The primary endpoint, mean (SD) PANSS total score changed significantly from baseline to endpoint (-19.6 [18.71], P <.0001). Secondary endpoints including PANSS subscale score, PSP, patient satisfaction and daytime drowsiness also significantly improved (P <.001). Most commonly reported (>/=1%) treatment-emergent adverse events were akathisia (n = 14 [12%]) and insomnia (n = 9 [8%]). CONCLUSIONS: Switching to flexible-dosed paliperidone ER in patients dissatisfied with prior olanzapine treatment achieved good efficacy and tolerability consistently over 12 weeks.
30653088	Paliperidone Palmitate	Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders	0	0	0	0		Switching to paliperidone extended release in patients with schizophrenia dissatisfied with previous olanzapine treatment: Post hoc analysis of an open-label, prospective study.	OBJECTIVE: This post hoc analysis of an open-label, single-arm, multicenter study was designed to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of paliperidone extended release (ER) in Chinese patients with non-acute schizophrenia, after switching from olanzapine. METHODS: Patients with schizophrenia who were dissatisfied with prior olanzapine treatment switched to flexible paliperidone ER (3-12 mg/day) based on clinical judgment. Change from baseline to week 12 in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores (primary endpoint), PANSS subscale scores, response rate, Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) score, personal and social performance (PSP) scores, patient satisfaction with treatment score, change in sleep quality, level of daytime sleepiness and safety were evaluated. RESULTS: Out of 118 enrolled patients, 95 (81%) completed the study. Mean duration of study was 76.9 (23.85) days. The primary endpoint, mean (SD) PANSS total score changed significantly from baseline to endpoint (-19.6 [18.71], P <.0001). Secondary endpoints including PANSS subscale score, PSP, patient satisfaction and daytime drowsiness also significantly improved (P <.001). Most commonly reported (>/=1%) treatment-emergent adverse events were akathisia (n = 14 [12%]) and insomnia (n = 9 [8%]). CONCLUSIONS: Switching to flexible-dosed paliperidone ER in patients dissatisfied with prior olanzapine treatment achieved good efficacy and tolerability consistently over 12 weeks.
30372726	Bevacizumab	Skin Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Acral cutaneous metastasis from a primary breast carcinoma following chemotherapy with bevacizumab and paclitaxel.	Acral cutaneous metastasis from internal malignancy is rare, and the pathogenesis is not completely understood. We present the case of a 54-year-old black woman with a history of breast cancer diagnosed 2 years prior who developed multiple cutaneous metastases to acral sites involving the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet. This case represents an unusual metastatic pattern of breast carcinoma that arose after treatment with bevacizumab, an angiogenesis inhibitor that binds vascular endothelial growth factor A. We propose that bevacizumab-induced vascular changes localized to acral skin may have contributed to the metastatic pattern seen in our patient.
30372726	Paclitaxel	Skin Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Acral cutaneous metastasis from a primary breast carcinoma following chemotherapy with bevacizumab and paclitaxel.	Acral cutaneous metastasis from internal malignancy is rare, and the pathogenesis is not completely understood. We present the case of a 54-year-old black woman with a history of breast cancer diagnosed 2 years prior who developed multiple cutaneous metastases to acral sites involving the palmar and plantar surfaces of the hands and feet. This case represents an unusual metastatic pattern of breast carcinoma that arose after treatment with bevacizumab, an angiogenesis inhibitor that binds vascular endothelial growth factor A. We propose that bevacizumab-induced vascular changes localized to acral skin may have contributed to the metastatic pattern seen in our patient.
30372707	Levamisole	Stomach Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Levamisole-induced vasculopathy with gastric involvement in a cocaine user.	Reports of levamisole-induced vasculopathy (LIV) secondary to use of levamisole-contaminated cocaine largely have been limited to the skin. We report the case of a 35-year-old woman with painful purpuric lesions affecting the cheeks, nose, ears, arms, and legs of several days' duration. She recently had used crack cocaine. A biopsy of a lesion on the right arm demonstrated leukocytoclastic vasculitis. She also reported abdominal pain and gastric reflux of recent onset but denied any history of gastrointestinal tract disease. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed and demonstrated hemorrhagic erosions of the esophagus and stomach similar in appearance to the cutaneous lesions. Because dermatologists often are the specialists making the diagnosis of LIV, it is important they inform other involved clinicians that the skin may not be the sole repository of vascular insult.
28760404	Mepivacaine	Retinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Retinal toxicity after accidental intravitreal injection of mepivacaine and adrenaline.	CASE REPORT: The case is presented of a 32 year-old male with no medical history of interest who suffered a traffic accident with mild traumatic brain injury. He had a left supraciliary incised and contused wound that extended to the left upper eyelid, with no loss of vision. After palpebral anaesthetic injection, there was a sudden visual acuity decrease in the left eye and hyposphagma located between I-III at 4mm from the limbus, with increased intraocular pressure. A whitish lesion with a central haemorrhagic focus was observed in the ocular fundus, corresponding to the area where the hyposphagma was located. DISCUSSION: Anaesthetic injection during palpebral repair may be complicated by inadvertent penetration of the eyeball. Intravitreal mepivacaine and adrenaline could cause macular and retinal lesions.
28743416	Adalimumab	Choroid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Asymptomatic choroidal tubercle in a patient with Crohn's disease on adalimumab treatment.	INTRODUCTION: Adalimumab, an anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha therapy for active Crohn's disease (CD), is associated with increased risks of tuberculosis infection. CASE REPORT: The case is presented of a 48 year-old male with active CD on treatment with adalimumab. After three months, he developed a miliary pulmonary tuberculosis infection, with a solitary non-reactive choroidal tubercle temporal-superior to the optic disc being found in an ophthalmological study. Fluorescein angiography showed late hyperfluorescence in a staining pattern. Optic coherence tomography showed a flat mass without serous retinal detachment. The choroidal tubercle slowly regressed with antituberculosis therapy. DISCUSSION: Choroidal tubercles with no vitreo-retinal symptomatology can be present in patients with CD and on treatment with adalimumab.
30335251	Methadone	Brain Damage, Chronic	1	0	0	0		[Image of the month. Delayed and isolated basal ganglia damage after methadone intoxication].	
29803511	Glyburide	Pigmentation Disorders	1	0	0	0		Glibenclamide-induced photodistributed lichenoid eruption: An unusual association.	
29373131	Methotrexate	Polycythemia Vera	1	0	0	0		[Rheumatoid arthritis and polycythemia vera JAK2 negative association: Polycythemia may be worsening under methotrexate?].	
28978980	Aldosterone	Hypertension, Renal	0	0	0	0		Role of bardoxolone methyl, a nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 activator, in aldosterone- and salt-induced renal injury.	The aim of this study was to investigate the renoprotective effect of bardoxolone methyl (BM), a nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) activator with an antioxidant effect, in a salt-sensitive hypertension model induced by aldosterone (Ald) and salt. Tubulointerstitial damage with urinary liver-type fatty acid-binding protein (L-FABP) was evaluated using human L-FABP chromosomal transgenic (L-FABP(+/-)) male mice. The mice in the Ald group (n=7) received systemic Ald infusions via an osmotic minipump and were given 1% NaCl water for 35 days. Those in the Ald-BM group (n=8) were administered BM intraperitoneally in addition to an injection of Ald and salt. The dose of BM was gradually increased every 7 days up to 10 mg kg(-1) per day, which was maintained for 14 days. The administration of BM significantly increased renal expression of the Nrf2 target antioxidant gene. Tubulointerstitial damage was significantly ameliorated in the Ald-BM group compared to the Ald group. The increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) and upregulation of angiotensinogen expression in the kidneys of the Ald group was significantly prevented in the Ald-BM group. The upregulation of human L-FABP expression induced in the kidneys and increase in urinary L-FABP in the Ald group were significantly suppressed by BM administration. In conclusion, BM ameliorated tubulointerstitial damage in the Ald- and salt-induced hypertension model through suppression of both ROS production and intrarenal renin-angiotensin system activation. Urinary L-FABP may be a useful marker reflecting the therapeutic efficacy of BM.
28873067	Magnesium Sulfate	Chorioamnionitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association of histological chorioamnionitis and magnesium sulfate treatment in singleton and dichorionic twin pregnancies with preterm premature rupture of membranes: preliminary observations.	Objective To evaluate the possible association between antenatal magnesium sulfate treatment with histological chorioamnionitis in patients with singleton or dichorionic twins that had preterm premature rupture of the membranes. Methods This was an observational study performed in patients admitted to the hospital with rupture of membranes before 34 weeks' gestation. The primary outcome was histological chorioamnionitis and the primary predictor was antenatal magnesium sulfate treatment. A logistic regression model was used without consideration of other antenatal medical treatments. Results Among 107 patients with preterm deliveries, 57 were admitted to the hospital before 34 weeks' gestation with preterm premature rupture of membranes. Fifty-cases were excluded from the analysis because they were admitted after 34 weeks' gestation, delivered before 24 weeks' gestation or had intrauterine fetal demise or monochorionic twins. The logistic regression analysis adjusting for maternal age, gravidity, parity, multiple gestation, gestational age at delivery, and birthweight, indicated that patients with singleton pregnancies and histological chorioamnionitis had received magnesium sulfate antenatally more frequently (chi2=6.46; P=0.01). The association between histological chorioamnionitis and magnesium sulfate treatment was not found among patients with dichorionic twin pregnancies with one intact gestational sac. Conclusions In this cohort of patients with preterm premature rupture of membranes admitted to the hospital before 34 week's gestation, those with singleton pregnancies treated antenatally with magnesium sulfate for neonatal neuroprotection had a greater rate of histological chorioamnionitis.
30577322	Tacrolimus	Complex Regional Pain Syndromes	1	1	0	1	0.0	Tacrolimus-Induced Pain Syndrome After Bone Marrow Transplantation: A Case Report and Literature Review.	BACKGROUND: Calcineurin-inhibitor-induced pain syndrome (CIPS), a rare complication seen in patients with bone marrow transplants, is associated with the use of cyclosporine A (CsA) or tacrolimus (FK506). This case demonstrates the successful pain control of FK506-related CIPS in a 23-year-old male patient with previously reported characteristic clinical features of CIPS in addition to neuropathic symptoms and uncharacteristic imaging findings. On day 15 after the transplantation, the patient complained of severe pain in the lower limbs. Afterwards, the patient started to complain of pain on his hands and back too. During this period, FK506 levels ranged from 9.5 to 16.1 ng/mL. All laboratory exams were normal, except for an increased level of alkaline phosphatase (141 U/L). The pain was not ameliorated by various analgesic drugs. Although MRI done for our patient showed no typical radiological signs such as bone marrow edema, CIPS was suggested based on characteristic clinical features of CIPS. Of note, our patient's pain had neuropathic pain-like characteristics, unlike the pain in previously reported patients with CIPS. CONCLUSION: The patient was treated successfully by switching FK506 to CsA and administrating gabapentin and nifedipine. Heightened awareness of this complication after bone marrow transplants may be needed for hematologists, otherwise CIPS can result in catastrophic consequences.
30577313	Everolimus	Ileal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Terminal Ileac Ulcers Mimicked Post-transplantation Lymphoproliferative Disorder in a Heart Recipient Treated With Everolimus: A Case Report.	Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a well-recognized and potentially fatal complication of cardiac transplantation that commonly involves the gastrointestinal tract. Herein, we report a case of life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding from recurrent terminal ileac ulcers mimicking PTLD in a heart recipient treated with everolimus (EVL). A 40-year-old man underwent heart transplantation for dilated cardiomyopathy 3 years prior to the current admission and was treated with tacrolimus and EVL. He was admitted to a local hospital because of fever, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. His symptoms persisted and, 3 weeks later, hematochezia occurred; thus, he was transferred to our hospital. As computed tomography and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography showed bowel-wall thickening of the terminal ileum, gastrointestinal PTLD was initially suspected. However, although colonoscopy- performed after switching EVL to mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)-showed terminal ileac ulcers, the histologic examination revealed no findings corresponding to PTLD. As EVL may delay ulcer healing, MMF was maintained for 3 months. After repeated colonoscopy showed ulcer healing, MMF was switched back to EVL for cardiac allograft vasculopathy prevention. Three weeks later, he was emergently admitted to a local hospital for life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding from a recurrent terminal ileal ulcer, which required hemostatic forceps hemostasis. As EVL is suspected to be associated with recurrent ileal ulcers, EVL was again switched back to MMF. The ileal ulcers resolved, without recurrence in 3 months of clinical follow-up. This case demonstrates that cases of life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding from recurrent terminal ileac ulcers can mimic PTLD in a heart recipient treated with EVL.
30577309	Sorafenib	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis and Thrombotic Microangiopathy in a Liver Transplant Patient on Sorafenib for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Case Report.	Transplant patients are at risk for hemodynamic injury and glomerular diseases such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) can cause various patterns of acute kidney injury (AKI) in transplant patients and their effects must be differentiated from kidney injury due to other agents. Transplant populations are also at risk for atypical infections and malignancies. These conditions and the agents that are used to treat them can then induce their own set of glomerular diseases. We report a patient with hepatitis C who had received an orthotopic liver transplant and then developed recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma, which was treated with the oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sorafenib. In a manner temporally related to the initiation of the TKI, progressive AKI and high-grade rising proteinuria were noted. A biopsy disclosed FSGS and concomitant TMA. Despite the discontinuation of the TKI and high-dose steroid treatment, the patient developed end-stage renal disease and was initiated on hemodialysis. After determining the TKI as the probable culprit, as opposed to CNIs, the patient successfully received a living related renal transplant. CNIs are used to maintain renal and hepatic allografts without the development of hematuria, significant proteinuria, or significant impairment of renal function. It is noted that the pathologic phenotype observed in this case is only the second reported case of concomitant TMA and FSGS in a sorafenib-treated patient.
30577309	Sorafenib	Glomerulosclerosis, Focal Segmental	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis and Thrombotic Microangiopathy in a Liver Transplant Patient on Sorafenib for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Case Report.	Transplant patients are at risk for hemodynamic injury and glomerular diseases such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) can cause various patterns of acute kidney injury (AKI) in transplant patients and their effects must be differentiated from kidney injury due to other agents. Transplant populations are also at risk for atypical infections and malignancies. These conditions and the agents that are used to treat them can then induce their own set of glomerular diseases. We report a patient with hepatitis C who had received an orthotopic liver transplant and then developed recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma, which was treated with the oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sorafenib. In a manner temporally related to the initiation of the TKI, progressive AKI and high-grade rising proteinuria were noted. A biopsy disclosed FSGS and concomitant TMA. Despite the discontinuation of the TKI and high-dose steroid treatment, the patient developed end-stage renal disease and was initiated on hemodialysis. After determining the TKI as the probable culprit, as opposed to CNIs, the patient successfully received a living related renal transplant. CNIs are used to maintain renal and hepatic allografts without the development of hematuria, significant proteinuria, or significant impairment of renal function. It is noted that the pathologic phenotype observed in this case is only the second reported case of concomitant TMA and FSGS in a sorafenib-treated patient.
30577309	Sorafenib	Thrombotic Microangiopathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	Development of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis and Thrombotic Microangiopathy in a Liver Transplant Patient on Sorafenib for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Case Report.	Transplant patients are at risk for hemodynamic injury and glomerular diseases such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) can cause various patterns of acute kidney injury (AKI) in transplant patients and their effects must be differentiated from kidney injury due to other agents. Transplant populations are also at risk for atypical infections and malignancies. These conditions and the agents that are used to treat them can then induce their own set of glomerular diseases. We report a patient with hepatitis C who had received an orthotopic liver transplant and then developed recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma, which was treated with the oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sorafenib. In a manner temporally related to the initiation of the TKI, progressive AKI and high-grade rising proteinuria were noted. A biopsy disclosed FSGS and concomitant TMA. Despite the discontinuation of the TKI and high-dose steroid treatment, the patient developed end-stage renal disease and was initiated on hemodialysis. After determining the TKI as the probable culprit, as opposed to CNIs, the patient successfully received a living related renal transplant. CNIs are used to maintain renal and hepatic allografts without the development of hematuria, significant proteinuria, or significant impairment of renal function. It is noted that the pathologic phenotype observed in this case is only the second reported case of concomitant TMA and FSGS in a sorafenib-treated patient.
30376593	Diazepam	Rhinitis	0	0	0	0		Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonists for acute stroke.	BACKGROUND: Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor agonists have been shown to have a neuroprotectant effect in reducing infarct size and improving functional outcome in animal models of cerebrovascular disease. However, the sedative effects of GABA receptor agonists have limited their wider application in people with acute stroke, due to the potential risk of stupor. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2013, and previously updated in 2014 and 2016. OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy and safety of GABA receptor agonists in the treatment of acute stroke. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (accessed May 2018), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) 2018, Issue 4 (accessed May 2018), MEDLINE (from 1949 to May 2018), Embase (from 1980 to May 2018), CINAHL (from 1982 to May 2018), AMED (from 1985 to May 2018), and 11 Chinese databases (accessed May 2018). In an effort to identify further published, unpublished, and ongoing trials we searched ongoing trial registers, reference lists, and relevant conference proceedings, and contacted authors and pharmaceutical companies. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating GABA receptor agonists versus placebo for people with acute stroke (within 12 hours after stroke onset), with the primary outcomes of efficacy and safety. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened the titles and abstracts of identified records, selected studies for inclusion, extracted eligible data, cross-checked the data for accuracy, and assessed the risk of bias. We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of the evidence. MAIN RESULTS: We included five trials with 3838 participants (acute ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke patients, 3758 analyzed). Most of the participants recruited had acute ischaemic stroke, with limited data available from participants with other stroke subtypes, including total anterior circulation syndrome (TACS). The methodological quality of the included trials was generally good, with an unclear risk for selection bias only. For death and dependency at three months, pooled results did not find a significant difference for chlormethiazole versus placebo (risk ratio (RR) 1.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.96 to 1.11; four trials; 2909 participants; moderate-quality evidence) and for diazepam versus placebo (RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.07; one trial; 849 participants; moderate-quality evidence). The most frequent adverse events related to chlormethiazole were somnolence (RR 4.56, 95% CI 3.50 to 5.95; two trials; 2527 participants; moderate-quality evidence) and rhinitis (RR 4.75, 95% CI 2.67 to 8.46; two trials; 2527 participants; moderate-quality evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review provides moderate-quality evidence that fails to support the use of GABA receptor agonists (chlormethiazole or diazepam) for the treatment of people with acute stroke. More well-designed RCTs with large samples of participants with total anterior circulation syndrome are required to determine if there are benefits for this subgroup. Somnolence and rhinitis are frequent adverse events related to chlormethiazole.
30031662	Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines	Hypertension, Pregnancy-Induced	1	0	0	0		Pertussis Immunisation in Pregnancy Safety (PIPS) Study: A retrospective cohort study of safety outcomes in pregnant women vaccinated with Tdap vaccine.	BACKGROUND: New Zealand has funded the administration of tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine during pregnancy to prevent infant pertussis since 2013. The aim of this study was to assess the safety of Tdap vaccine administered to pregnant women as part of a national maternal immunisation programme. METHODS: We conducted a national retrospective observational study using linked administrative New Zealand datasets. The study population consisted of pregnant women eligible to receive funded Tdap vaccination from 28 to 38 weeks gestation in 2013. Primary study outcomes were based on prioritised adverse events for the assessment of vaccine safety in pregnant women, as defined by WHO and Brighton Collaboration taskforces. We examined the effect of Tdap vaccination on prioritised maternal outcomes using Cox proportional hazard models. Adjusted hazard ratios controlled for key confounding variables. RESULTS: In the cohort of 68,550 women eligible to receive funded antenatal Tdap vaccination during 2013, 8178 (11.9%) were vaccinated and 60,372 (88.1%) were unvaccinated. The use of Tdap in pregnancy was not associated with an increase in the rate of primary outcomes, including preterm labour; pre-eclampsia; pre-eclampsia with severe features; eclampsia; gestational hypertension; fetal growth restriction; or post-partum haemorrhage. Tdap also did not increase secondary outcomes, including gestational diabetes mellitus; antenatal bleeding; placental abruption; premature rupture of membranes; preterm delivery; fetal distress; chorioamnionitis; or, maternal fever during or after labour. Lactation disorders was the only secondary maternal outcome with a significantly increased hazard ratio. Tdap vaccine had a protective effect on pre-eclampsia with severe features, preterm labour, preterm delivery, and antenatal bleeding. CONCLUSION: We did not detect any biologically plausible adverse maternal outcomes following Tdap vaccination during pregnancy. This study provides further assurance that Tdap administration during pregnancy is not associated with unexpected safety risks.
30031662	Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines	Pregnancy Complications	1	0	0	0		Pertussis Immunisation in Pregnancy Safety (PIPS) Study: A retrospective cohort study of safety outcomes in pregnant women vaccinated with Tdap vaccine.	BACKGROUND: New Zealand has funded the administration of tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine during pregnancy to prevent infant pertussis since 2013. The aim of this study was to assess the safety of Tdap vaccine administered to pregnant women as part of a national maternal immunisation programme. METHODS: We conducted a national retrospective observational study using linked administrative New Zealand datasets. The study population consisted of pregnant women eligible to receive funded Tdap vaccination from 28 to 38 weeks gestation in 2013. Primary study outcomes were based on prioritised adverse events for the assessment of vaccine safety in pregnant women, as defined by WHO and Brighton Collaboration taskforces. We examined the effect of Tdap vaccination on prioritised maternal outcomes using Cox proportional hazard models. Adjusted hazard ratios controlled for key confounding variables. RESULTS: In the cohort of 68,550 women eligible to receive funded antenatal Tdap vaccination during 2013, 8178 (11.9%) were vaccinated and 60,372 (88.1%) were unvaccinated. The use of Tdap in pregnancy was not associated with an increase in the rate of primary outcomes, including preterm labour; pre-eclampsia; pre-eclampsia with severe features; eclampsia; gestational hypertension; fetal growth restriction; or post-partum haemorrhage. Tdap also did not increase secondary outcomes, including gestational diabetes mellitus; antenatal bleeding; placental abruption; premature rupture of membranes; preterm delivery; fetal distress; chorioamnionitis; or, maternal fever during or after labour. Lactation disorders was the only secondary maternal outcome with a significantly increased hazard ratio. Tdap vaccine had a protective effect on pre-eclampsia with severe features, preterm labour, preterm delivery, and antenatal bleeding. CONCLUSION: We did not detect any biologically plausible adverse maternal outcomes following Tdap vaccination during pregnancy. This study provides further assurance that Tdap administration during pregnancy is not associated with unexpected safety risks.
30031662	Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines	Premature Birth	1	0	0	0		Pertussis Immunisation in Pregnancy Safety (PIPS) Study: A retrospective cohort study of safety outcomes in pregnant women vaccinated with Tdap vaccine.	BACKGROUND: New Zealand has funded the administration of tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine during pregnancy to prevent infant pertussis since 2013. The aim of this study was to assess the safety of Tdap vaccine administered to pregnant women as part of a national maternal immunisation programme. METHODS: We conducted a national retrospective observational study using linked administrative New Zealand datasets. The study population consisted of pregnant women eligible to receive funded Tdap vaccination from 28 to 38 weeks gestation in 2013. Primary study outcomes were based on prioritised adverse events for the assessment of vaccine safety in pregnant women, as defined by WHO and Brighton Collaboration taskforces. We examined the effect of Tdap vaccination on prioritised maternal outcomes using Cox proportional hazard models. Adjusted hazard ratios controlled for key confounding variables. RESULTS: In the cohort of 68,550 women eligible to receive funded antenatal Tdap vaccination during 2013, 8178 (11.9%) were vaccinated and 60,372 (88.1%) were unvaccinated. The use of Tdap in pregnancy was not associated with an increase in the rate of primary outcomes, including preterm labour; pre-eclampsia; pre-eclampsia with severe features; eclampsia; gestational hypertension; fetal growth restriction; or post-partum haemorrhage. Tdap also did not increase secondary outcomes, including gestational diabetes mellitus; antenatal bleeding; placental abruption; premature rupture of membranes; preterm delivery; fetal distress; chorioamnionitis; or, maternal fever during or after labour. Lactation disorders was the only secondary maternal outcome with a significantly increased hazard ratio. Tdap vaccine had a protective effect on pre-eclampsia with severe features, preterm labour, preterm delivery, and antenatal bleeding. CONCLUSION: We did not detect any biologically plausible adverse maternal outcomes following Tdap vaccination during pregnancy. This study provides further assurance that Tdap administration during pregnancy is not associated with unexpected safety risks.
29648420	Pyrethrins	Neurodevelopmental Disorders	0	1	0	0		Prenatal Exposure to DDT and Pyrethroids for Malaria Control and Child Neurodevelopment: The VHEMBE Cohort, South Africa.	BACKGROUND: Although indoor residual spraying (IRS) with dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and pyrethroids effectively controls malaria, it potentially increases human exposure to these insecticides. Previous studies suggest that prenatal exposure to these insecticides may impact human neurodevelopment. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to estimate the effects of maternal insecticide exposure and neurodevelopment of toddlers living in a malaria-endemic region currently using IRS. METHODS: The Venda Health Examination of Mothers, Babies and their Environment (VHEMBE) is a birth cohort of 752 mother-child pairs in Limpopo, South Africa. We measured maternal exposure to DDT and its breakdown product, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), in maternal serum, and measured pyrethroid metabolites in maternal urine. We assessed children's neurodevelopment at 1 and 2 y of age using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development, third edition (BSID-III), and examined associations with maternal exposure. RESULTS: DDT and DDE were not associated with significantly lower scores for any BSID-III scale. In contrast, each 10-fold increase in cis-DCCA, trans-DCCA, and 3-phenoxybenzoic acid were associated, respectively, with a -0.63 (95% CI: -1.14, -0.12), -0.48 (95% CI: -0.92, -0.05), and -0.58 (-1.11, -0.06) decrement in Social-Emotional scores at 1 y of age. In addition, each 10-fold increase in maternal cis-DBCA levels was associated with significant decrements at 2 y of age in Language Composite scores and Expressive Communication scores [beta=-1.74 (95% CI: -3.34, -0.13) and beta=-0.40 (95% CI: -0.77, -0.04), respectively, for a 10-fold increase]. Significant differences by sex were estimated for pyrethroid metabolites and motor function scores at 2 y of age, with higher scores for boys and lower scores for girls. CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal exposure to pyrethroids may be associated at 1 y of age with poorer social-emotional development. At 2 y of age, poorer language development was observed with higher prenatal pyrethroid levels. Considering the widespread use of pyrethroids, these findings deserve further investigation. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP2129.
30653479	Aprepitant	Nausea	0	0	0	0		IV aprepitant (Cinvanti) for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.	
30653479	Aprepitant	Vomiting	0	0	0	0		IV aprepitant (Cinvanti) for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.	
30443347	Atorvastatin	Musculoskeletal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Onset timing of statin-induced musculoskeletal adverse events and concomitant drug-associated shift in onset timing of MAEs.	To evaluate the onset timing of musculoskeletal adverse events (MAEs) that develop during statin monotherapy and to determine whether concomitant drugs used concurrently with statin therapy shifts the onset timing of MAEs. Cases in which statins (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin, lovastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, and pravastatin) were prescribed were extracted from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) Data Files. The onset timing of MAEs during statin monotherapy was evaluated by determining the difference between statin start date and MAE onset date. The use of concomitant drugs with statin therapy was included in the analysis. Statins used in combination with concomitant drugs were compared with statin monotherapy to determine if the use of concomitant drugs shifted the onset timing of MAEs. The onset of MAEs was significantly faster with atorvastatin and rosuvastatin than with simvastatin. A difference in onset timing was not detected with other statins because the number of cases was too small for analysis. When evaluating concomitant drug use, the concomitant drugs that shifted the onset timing of MAEs could not be detected. Statins with strong low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-lowering effects (atorvastatin and rosuvastatin) contributed not only to a high risk of MAE onset, but also to a shorter time-to-onset. No concomitant drug significantly shifted the onset timing of MAEs when used concurrently with statins.
30443347	Rosuvastatin Calcium	Musculoskeletal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Onset timing of statin-induced musculoskeletal adverse events and concomitant drug-associated shift in onset timing of MAEs.	To evaluate the onset timing of musculoskeletal adverse events (MAEs) that develop during statin monotherapy and to determine whether concomitant drugs used concurrently with statin therapy shifts the onset timing of MAEs. Cases in which statins (atorvastatin, rosuvastatin, simvastatin, lovastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, and pravastatin) were prescribed were extracted from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) Data Files. The onset timing of MAEs during statin monotherapy was evaluated by determining the difference between statin start date and MAE onset date. The use of concomitant drugs with statin therapy was included in the analysis. Statins used in combination with concomitant drugs were compared with statin monotherapy to determine if the use of concomitant drugs shifted the onset timing of MAEs. The onset of MAEs was significantly faster with atorvastatin and rosuvastatin than with simvastatin. A difference in onset timing was not detected with other statins because the number of cases was too small for analysis. When evaluating concomitant drug use, the concomitant drugs that shifted the onset timing of MAEs could not be detected. Statins with strong low-density lipoprotein cholesterol-lowering effects (atorvastatin and rosuvastatin) contributed not only to a high risk of MAE onset, but also to a shorter time-to-onset. No concomitant drug significantly shifted the onset timing of MAEs when used concurrently with statins.
29383633	Calcium Gluconate	Hypotension	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Fatal Case of Amlodipine Toxicity Following Iatrogenic Hypercalcemia.	Using calcium salts in management of amlodipine overdose is challenging. A 25-year-old male with known history of adult polycystic kidney disease presented with hypotension, tachycardia, and intact neurological status after ingestion of 450 mg of amlodipine. Immediately, normal saline infusion and norepinephrine were initiated. Two grams of calcium gluconate was injected, followed by intravenous infusion of 1.16 mg/kg/h. The patient was put on insulin-glucose protocol to maintain euglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. Electrocardiography demonstrated junctional rhythm. Serum creatinine was 2.5 mg/dL with metabolic acidosis. By the end of 24 h post-admission, his consciousness, blood pressure, and urine output were normal. Almost 32 h post-admission, he became disoriented and his oxygen saturation decreased and therefore was mechanically ventilated. Second chest X-ray showed pulmonary edema. Serum calcium level increased to 26.1 mg/dL. Calcium was discontinued, and furosemide infusion and calcitonin were intravenously administrated. Urine output increased and hemodialysis improved pulmonary edema and serum calcium level with no change in consciousness. Three days after admission, the patient became anuric and developed multi-organ failure and died 5 days post-admission. To avoid the consequences of excessive infusion of calcium in renal failure patients, the minimum calcium dose with close monitoring is recommended.
29383633	Calcium Gluconate	Multiple Organ Failure	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Fatal Case of Amlodipine Toxicity Following Iatrogenic Hypercalcemia.	Using calcium salts in management of amlodipine overdose is challenging. A 25-year-old male with known history of adult polycystic kidney disease presented with hypotension, tachycardia, and intact neurological status after ingestion of 450 mg of amlodipine. Immediately, normal saline infusion and norepinephrine were initiated. Two grams of calcium gluconate was injected, followed by intravenous infusion of 1.16 mg/kg/h. The patient was put on insulin-glucose protocol to maintain euglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. Electrocardiography demonstrated junctional rhythm. Serum creatinine was 2.5 mg/dL with metabolic acidosis. By the end of 24 h post-admission, his consciousness, blood pressure, and urine output were normal. Almost 32 h post-admission, he became disoriented and his oxygen saturation decreased and therefore was mechanically ventilated. Second chest X-ray showed pulmonary edema. Serum calcium level increased to 26.1 mg/dL. Calcium was discontinued, and furosemide infusion and calcitonin were intravenously administrated. Urine output increased and hemodialysis improved pulmonary edema and serum calcium level with no change in consciousness. Three days after admission, the patient became anuric and developed multi-organ failure and died 5 days post-admission. To avoid the consequences of excessive infusion of calcium in renal failure patients, the minimum calcium dose with close monitoring is recommended.
29383633	Calcium Gluconate	Tachycardia	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Fatal Case of Amlodipine Toxicity Following Iatrogenic Hypercalcemia.	Using calcium salts in management of amlodipine overdose is challenging. A 25-year-old male with known history of adult polycystic kidney disease presented with hypotension, tachycardia, and intact neurological status after ingestion of 450 mg of amlodipine. Immediately, normal saline infusion and norepinephrine were initiated. Two grams of calcium gluconate was injected, followed by intravenous infusion of 1.16 mg/kg/h. The patient was put on insulin-glucose protocol to maintain euglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. Electrocardiography demonstrated junctional rhythm. Serum creatinine was 2.5 mg/dL with metabolic acidosis. By the end of 24 h post-admission, his consciousness, blood pressure, and urine output were normal. Almost 32 h post-admission, he became disoriented and his oxygen saturation decreased and therefore was mechanically ventilated. Second chest X-ray showed pulmonary edema. Serum calcium level increased to 26.1 mg/dL. Calcium was discontinued, and furosemide infusion and calcitonin were intravenously administrated. Urine output increased and hemodialysis improved pulmonary edema and serum calcium level with no change in consciousness. Three days after admission, the patient became anuric and developed multi-organ failure and died 5 days post-admission. To avoid the consequences of excessive infusion of calcium in renal failure patients, the minimum calcium dose with close monitoring is recommended.
29247298	Teriparatide	Connective Tissue Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Worsening of soft tissue dystrophic calcification in an osteoporotic patient treated with teriparatide.	Teriparatide, used for treatment of osteoporosis in patients at high risk of fracture risk, sometimes results in mild and transient hypercalcemia. There have been two recent reports of worsening dystrophic calcification in patients with autoimmune disorders following teriparatide treatment. We report a patient with severe osteoporosis and without a pre-existing autoimmune disorder, who developed symptomatic worsening of dystrophic calcification 4 months after teriparatide was initiated. Symptoms resolved within 1 week of teriparatide cessation.
29199359	Alendronate	Venous Thromboembolism	1	0	0	0		Risk of venous thromboembolism among users of different anti-osteoporosis drugs: a population-based cohort analysis including over 200,000 participants from Spain and the UK.	The venous thromboembolism risk among anti-osteoporotics is unknown. In this primary care study, the risk with other bisphosphonates [1.05 (0.94-1.18) and 0.96 (0.78-1.18)], strontium [0.90 (0.61-1.34) and 1.19 (0.82-1.74)], in the UK and Spain respectively, and denosumab [1.77 (0.25-12.66)] and teriparatide [1.27 (0.59-2.71)] in Spain, did not differ versus alendronate. INTRODUCTION: Most of the known adverse drug reactions described for anti-osteoporosis medication (AOM) have been described in studies comparing AOM users to non-users. We aimed to compare the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) among incident users of different AOM compared to alendronate (first line therapy). METHODS: Two cohort studies were performed using data from the UK (CPRD) and Spain (BIFAP) primary care records separately. All patients aged >/= 50 years with at least 1 year of data available and a new prescription or dispensation of AOM (date for therapy initiation) during 2000-2014 (CPRD) or 2001-2013 (BIFAP) were included. Users of raloxifene/bazedoxifene were excluded from both databases. Five exposure cohorts were identified according to first treatment: (1) alendronate, (2) other bisphosphonates, (3) strontium ranelate, (4) denosumab, and (5) teriparatide. Participants were followed from the day after therapy initiation to the earliest of a treated VTE (cases), end of AOM treatment (defined by a refill gap of 180 days), switching to an alternative AOM, drop-out, death, or end of study period. Incidence rates of VTE were estimated by cohort. Adjusted hazard ratios (HR 95%CI) were estimated according to drug used. RESULTS: Overall, 2035/159,209 (1.28%) in CPRD and 401/83,334 (0.48%) in BIFAP had VTE. Compared to alendronate, adjusted HR of VTE were 1.05 (0.94-1.18) and 0.96 (0.78-1.18) for other bisphosphonates, and 0.90 (0.61-1.34) and 1.19 (0.82-1.74) for strontium in CPRD and BIFAP, respectively; 1.77 (0.25-12.66) for denosumab and 1.27 (0.59-2.71) for teriparatide in BIFAP. CONCLUSIONS: VTE risk during AO therapy did not differ by AOM drug use. Our data does not support an increased risk of VTE associated with strontium ranelate use in the community.
29189321	Insulin	Carcinoma, Verrucous	0	0	0	0		Verrucous Plaque on the Abdomen: Answer.	
29177954	Lenalidomide	Skin Diseases	1	0	0	0		Pharmacogenetic study of the impact of ABCB1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms on lenalidomide treatment outcomes in patients with multiple myeloma: results from a phase IV observational study and subsequent phase II clinical trial.	PURPOSE: Despite therapeutic advances, patients with multiple myeloma (MM) continue to experience disease relapse and treatment resistance. The gene ABCB1 encodes the drug transporter P-glycoprotein, which confers resistance through drug extrusion across the cell membrane. Lenalidomide (Len) is excreted mainly via the kidneys, and, given the expression of P-gp in the renal tubuli, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the ABCB1 gene may influence Len plasma concentrations and, subsequently, the outcome of treatment. We, therefore, investigated the influence of ABCB1 genetic variants on Len treatment outcomes and adverse events (AEs). METHODS: Ninety patients with relapsed or refractory MM, who received the second-line Len plus dexamethasone in the Rev II trial, were genotyped for the ABCB1 SNPs 1199G>A (Ser400Asn, rs2229109), 1236C>T (silent, rs1128503), 2677G>T/A (Ala893Ser, rs2032582), and 3435C>T (silent, rs1045642) using pyrosequencing, and correlations to response parameters, outcomes, and AEs were investigated. RESULTS: No significant associations were found between genotype and either best response rates or hematological AEs, and 1236C>T, 2677G>T or 3435C>T genotypes had no impact on survival. There was a trend towards increased time to progression (TTP) in patients carrying the 1199A variant, and a significant difference in TTP between genotypes in patients with standard-risk cytogenetics. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show a limited influence of ABCB1 genotype on lenalidomide treatment efficacy and safety. The results suggest that 1199G>A may be a marker of TTP following Len treatment in standard-risk patients; however, larger studies are needed to validate and clarify the relationship.
29164296	Oxaliplatin	Hematologic Diseases	0	1	0	0		Pharmacokinetic and toxicodynamic evaluation of oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy and hematological toxicity in rats.	PURPOSE: Oxaliplatin (L-OHP) is a third-generation, platinum-based chemotherapeutic agent and is widely used in gastroenterological cancer regimens. It is important to complete chemotherapy cycles to improve treatment efficacy for cancer patients. However, undesirable side effects, including acute and chronic neuropathies, and myelosuppression, lead to the discontinuation of chemotherapy in some treatment regimens. To predict and prevent the onset of side effects, and to establish appropriate dose adjustment, pharmacokinetic and toxicodynamic studies were performed to investigate the effects of L-OHP in rats. METHODS: Rats were administered intravenous L-OHP, once a week for 4 weeks, at doses of 3, 5, or 8 mg/kg. Pharmacokinetic profiles were observed on Day 1 and Day 22. Acute and chronic neuropathies were evaluated over 4 weeks; cold allodynia was evaluated using an acetone test and mechanical allodynia using the von Frey test. Hematological parameters were also investigated during the same period. RESULTS: The mean AUC0-infinity values for L-OHP were 0.4 +/- 0.2, 2.4 +/- 0.4, and 3.5 +/- 0.9 ng h/mL, increasing dose-dependently on Day 1. The accumulation of L-OHP on Day 22 was observed after repeated administration of L-OHP, as shown by mean AUC0-infinity values of 0.6 +/- 0.2, 4.0 +/- 1.0, and 14.1 +/- 9.8 ng.h/mL, for the three doses. Cold allodynia was observed from Day 3 in the 5 and 8 mg/kg groups, and the extent of this response was dose-dependent. Mechanical allodynia was also observed from Day 10 in the 5 and 8 mg/kg groups. Moreover, the platelet count was the most sensitive among the hematological parameters. CONCLUSION: These results provide useful experimental data for clinical cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, to establish a pharmacokinetic and toxicodynamic model of L-OHP for adequate dose adjustment.
28951195	Amiodarone	Long Term Adverse Effects	1	0	0	0		Rhythm control in left ventricular assist device patients: should we consider abandoning amiodarone?	
28673697	Amoxicillin	Leukocytosis	1	0	0	0		[Antibiotic-induced fever, does it really exist ?].	
28673697	Amoxicillin-Potassium Clavulanate Combination	Fever	1	0	0	0		[Antibiotic-induced fever, does it really exist ?].	
28673697	Amoxicillin-Potassium Clavulanate Combination	Leukocytosis	1	0	0	0		[Antibiotic-induced fever, does it really exist ?].	
28144007	Ticagrelor	Purpura, Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic	1	0	0	0		Ticagrelor-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.	
27338592	Hydroxocobalamin	Pigmentation Disorders	1	0	0	0		Wine-Colored Plasma and Urine from Hydroxocobalamin Treatment.	
30262547	Benzocaine	Dermatitis, Atopic	1	0	0	0		Desire for lasting long in bed led to contact allergic dermatitis and subsequent superficial penile gangrene: a dreadful complication of benzocaine-containing extended-pleasure condom.	
29273609	Everolimus	Bone Marrow Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bone marrow edema associated with everolimus.	PURPOSE: The case of a patient who experienced bone marrow edema and pain in both feet and a compression fracture of one heel bone after several months of everolimus use is reported. SUMMARY: A 62-year-old woman with a grade 1 metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (pNET) developed bilateral lower extremity edema and pain approximately 4 months after initiation of treatment with everolimus, an inhibitor of mammalian (or mechanistic) target of rapamycin (mTOR). The patient was referred for orthopedic evaluation, which resulted in diagnosis of bone marrow edema and a compression fracture of the calcaneus on the basis of magnetic resonance imaging results. The case was discussed with a clinical pharmacist, and after an in-depth analysis to rule out potential alternative causes for the patient's edema and pain, everolimus was discontinued. The patient had a full recovery from the presenting symptoms within 10 days of discontinuation of everolimus. Analysis of this case using the adverse drug reaction probability scale of Naranjo et al. yielded a score of 6, indicating a probable adverse reaction to everolimus. A hypothesized mechanism for everolimus-induced bone pain includes marrow edema and hyperemia from reduced intraosseous perfusion, which have been previously reported in association with mTOR inhibitor use. CONCLUSION: Bone marrow edema developed and a fracture occurred in a patient taking everolimus for a metastatic pNET, with complete resolution of lower extremity swelling and pain within 2 weeks of everolimus discontinuation.
27574941	Deamino Arginine Vasopressin	Contusions	1	0	0	0		Hyponatremic Seizures With Severe Tongue Contusion After Initial Use of Intranasal DDAVP.	
29274030	Sorafenib	Fatigue	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fatigue among patients with renal cell carcinoma receiving adjuvant sunitinib or sorafenib: patient-reported outcomes of ECOG-ACRIN E2805 trial.	BACKGROUND: E2805 was a phase III trial to test whether adjuvant sunitinib or sorafenib could improve disease-free survival compared to placebo in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Patient-reported outcomes (PRO), focusing on fatigue, were evaluated as a secondary endpoint. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 463 patients participated in the PRO study. Fatigue was measured by the FACIT Fatigue scale and PROMIS Fatigue SF1 measure at baseline, week 10, and week 22. The primary endpoint was change in fatigue score from baseline to week 22, measured by the FACIT Fatigue scale. Secondarily, the psychometric properties of PROMIS Fatigue SF1 were assessed in relation to the FACIT Fatigue scale. RESULTS: Fatigue got significantly worse on all arms after 2 cycles of treatment, and especially so in patients on sunitinib (- 9.6 vs. - 5.6 on sorafenib vs. - 4.7 on placebo). Fatigue remained stable during week 10 and week 22. Overall, the mean score change between baseline and week 22 was - 7.9 (p < 0.001) on sunitinib, - 6.4 (p < 0.001) on sorafenib and - 5.6 (p < 0.001) on placebo arm. The difference in score change was not statistically significant between the two experimental arms and the placebo arm (difference = - 2.34 [p = 0.110] and - 0.87 [p = 0.535] for sunitinib vs. placebo and sorafenib vs. placebo). PROMIS Fatigue SF1 had good internal consistency reliability and construct and criterion validity, and was highly correlated with the FACIT Fatigue scale score. CONCLUSIONS: Fatigue got worse during study period, especially in patients on sunitinib. The PROMIS Fatigue SF1 was highly correlated with FACIT Fatigue and produced similar results.
28918165	Gabapentin	Delirium	1	0	0	0		Delirium Following Topical Application of Compounded Creams Containing Multiple Analgesic Medications in Geriatric Patients: Two New Cases.	
28918165	Ketoprofen	Delirium	1	0	0	0		Delirium Following Topical Application of Compounded Creams Containing Multiple Analgesic Medications in Geriatric Patients: Two New Cases.	
27866006	Dutasteride	Heart Failure	0	0	0	0		The Cardiovascular Safety of Dutasteride.	PURPOSE: Randomized controlled trials suggest an increased risk of heart failure with dutasteride, which inhibits both the type 1 and type 2 isoforms of 5alpha-reductase. In contrast, no such association has been suggested for finasteride, which selectively inhibits the type 2 isoform. We investigated the risk of cardiovascular events among patients receiving dutasteride relative to finasteride. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a population based cohort study of Ontario men 66 years old or older who commenced treatment with dutasteride or finasteride between October 1, 2005 and March 31, 2015. For each individual treated with dutasteride, we identified 1 treated with finasteride, matching on a propensity score and calendar quarter of treatment initiation to account for temporal changes in prescribing. The primary outcome was hospitalization for heart failure. Secondary analyses were done to examine acute myocardial infarction and stroke. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to adjust for differences between groups. RESULTS: We studied 36,311 men who commenced dutasteride and 36,311 treated with finasteride. In the primary analysis, we found no difference in the risk of heart failure among patients receiving dutasteride relative to those receiving finasteride (adjusted HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.88-1.08). Similarly, we found no difference in the risk of acute myocardial infarction (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.82-1.08) or stroke (HR 1.03, 95% CI 0.88-1.20). CONCLUSIONS: In this population based cohort study of more than 72,000 older men, dutasteride was not associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events relative to finasteride.
27866006	Finasteride	Myocardial Infarction	0	0	0	0		The Cardiovascular Safety of Dutasteride.	PURPOSE: Randomized controlled trials suggest an increased risk of heart failure with dutasteride, which inhibits both the type 1 and type 2 isoforms of 5alpha-reductase. In contrast, no such association has been suggested for finasteride, which selectively inhibits the type 2 isoform. We investigated the risk of cardiovascular events among patients receiving dutasteride relative to finasteride. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a population based cohort study of Ontario men 66 years old or older who commenced treatment with dutasteride or finasteride between October 1, 2005 and March 31, 2015. For each individual treated with dutasteride, we identified 1 treated with finasteride, matching on a propensity score and calendar quarter of treatment initiation to account for temporal changes in prescribing. The primary outcome was hospitalization for heart failure. Secondary analyses were done to examine acute myocardial infarction and stroke. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to adjust for differences between groups. RESULTS: We studied 36,311 men who commenced dutasteride and 36,311 treated with finasteride. In the primary analysis, we found no difference in the risk of heart failure among patients receiving dutasteride relative to those receiving finasteride (adjusted HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.88-1.08). Similarly, we found no difference in the risk of acute myocardial infarction (HR 0.94, 95% CI 0.82-1.08) or stroke (HR 1.03, 95% CI 0.88-1.20). CONCLUSIONS: In this population based cohort study of more than 72,000 older men, dutasteride was not associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events relative to finasteride.
27415638	Collagen	Eyelid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Xanthelasma Palpebrarum after Artecoll (polymethylmethacrylate collagen) Injections to the Bilateral Tear Troughs.	
30624504	Sorafenib	Heart Failure	1	0	0	1		Rare complications of multikinase inhibitor treatment.	OBJECTIVE: The advent of multikinase inhibitor (MKI) therapy has led to a radical change in the treatment of patients with advanced thyroid carcinoma. The aim of this manuscript is to communicate rare adverse events that occurred in less than 5% of patients in clinical trials in a subset of patients treated in our hospital. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Out of 760 patients with thyroid cancer followed up with in our Division of Endocrinology, 29 (3.8%) received treatment with MKIs. The median age at diagnosis of these patients was 53 years (range 20-70), and 75.9% of them were women. Sorafenib was prescribed as first-line treatment to 23 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer and as second-line treatment to one patient with advanced medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). Vandetanib was indicated as first-line treatment in 6 patients with MTC and lenvatinib as second-line treatment in two patients with progressive disease under sorafenib treatment. RESULTS: During the follow-up of treatment (mean 13.7 +/- 7 months, median 12 months, range 6-32), 5/29 (17.2%) patients presented rare adverse events. These rare adverse effects were: heart failure, thrombocytopenia, and squamous cell carcinoma during sorafenib therapy and squamous cell carcinoma and oophoritis with intestinal perforation during vandetanib treatment. CONCLUSIONS: About 3 to 5 years after the approval of MKI therapy, we learned that MKIs usually lead to adverse effects in the majority of patients. Although most of them are manageable, we still need to be aware of potentially serious and rare or unreported adverse effects that can be life-threatening.
30624504	Sorafenib	Intestinal Perforation	1	0	0	1		Rare complications of multikinase inhibitor treatment.	OBJECTIVE: The advent of multikinase inhibitor (MKI) therapy has led to a radical change in the treatment of patients with advanced thyroid carcinoma. The aim of this manuscript is to communicate rare adverse events that occurred in less than 5% of patients in clinical trials in a subset of patients treated in our hospital. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Out of 760 patients with thyroid cancer followed up with in our Division of Endocrinology, 29 (3.8%) received treatment with MKIs. The median age at diagnosis of these patients was 53 years (range 20-70), and 75.9% of them were women. Sorafenib was prescribed as first-line treatment to 23 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer and as second-line treatment to one patient with advanced medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). Vandetanib was indicated as first-line treatment in 6 patients with MTC and lenvatinib as second-line treatment in two patients with progressive disease under sorafenib treatment. RESULTS: During the follow-up of treatment (mean 13.7 +/- 7 months, median 12 months, range 6-32), 5/29 (17.2%) patients presented rare adverse events. These rare adverse effects were: heart failure, thrombocytopenia, and squamous cell carcinoma during sorafenib therapy and squamous cell carcinoma and oophoritis with intestinal perforation during vandetanib treatment. CONCLUSIONS: About 3 to 5 years after the approval of MKI therapy, we learned that MKIs usually lead to adverse effects in the majority of patients. Although most of them are manageable, we still need to be aware of potentially serious and rare or unreported adverse effects that can be life-threatening.
30624504	Sorafenib	Thrombocytopenia	1	0	0	1		Rare complications of multikinase inhibitor treatment.	OBJECTIVE: The advent of multikinase inhibitor (MKI) therapy has led to a radical change in the treatment of patients with advanced thyroid carcinoma. The aim of this manuscript is to communicate rare adverse events that occurred in less than 5% of patients in clinical trials in a subset of patients treated in our hospital. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Out of 760 patients with thyroid cancer followed up with in our Division of Endocrinology, 29 (3.8%) received treatment with MKIs. The median age at diagnosis of these patients was 53 years (range 20-70), and 75.9% of them were women. Sorafenib was prescribed as first-line treatment to 23 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer and as second-line treatment to one patient with advanced medullary thyroid cancer (MTC). Vandetanib was indicated as first-line treatment in 6 patients with MTC and lenvatinib as second-line treatment in two patients with progressive disease under sorafenib treatment. RESULTS: During the follow-up of treatment (mean 13.7 +/- 7 months, median 12 months, range 6-32), 5/29 (17.2%) patients presented rare adverse events. These rare adverse effects were: heart failure, thrombocytopenia, and squamous cell carcinoma during sorafenib therapy and squamous cell carcinoma and oophoritis with intestinal perforation during vandetanib treatment. CONCLUSIONS: About 3 to 5 years after the approval of MKI therapy, we learned that MKIs usually lead to adverse effects in the majority of patients. Although most of them are manageable, we still need to be aware of potentially serious and rare or unreported adverse effects that can be life-threatening.
30415842	Clove Oil	Pain	0	0	0	0		Short communication: Evaluation of the efficacy of novel disbudding methods for dairy calves.	The objectives of this study were to (1) evaluate whether cryoablation or the administration of clove oil was as efficacious as cautery disbudding at preventing horn growth, and (2) evaluate whether the efficacy of cautery disbudding is affected by removing or leaving the horn bud tissue intact after disbudding of dairy calves. At approximately 4 d of age (4.0 +/- 0.88 d of age, mean +/- SD), 265 dairy heifer calves from 3 dairy farms (farm 1: n = 129 calves; farm 2: n = 109 calves; farm 3: n = 27 calves) were disbudded. Each calf had 1 of 4 treatments randomly assigned to each horn bud: (1) clove oil (0.5 mL) administered subcutaneously under the horn bud (CLOV, n = 135 buds); (2) a liquid nitrogen-filled probe applied to the horn bud area for 30 s (CRYO, n = 134 buds); (3) cautery disbudding using an electric hot-iron and the horn bud removed (BUDOFF, n = 130); or (4) cautery disbudding and the horn bud tissue left intact (BUDON, n = 131). Calves were assessed for signs of infection at the disbudding site frequently within the first month after disbudding. At approximately 6 mo of age (6 +/- 2.2 mo, mean +/- SD) calves were assessed for scur or horn growth. The disbudding procedures were considered successful if no scur or horn development was observed. Within the first month, 12% of disbudding wounds showed some indication of infection, such as pus, exudate, or swelling; of the infected buds, 52% were associated with the BUDON treatment, 27% with CLOV, 25% with BUDOFF, and 2% with CRYO treatments. At 6 mo of age, BUDOFF was the most effective method of preventing horn growth and CRYO was the least efficacious [mean percentage of success: BUDOFF: 100% (95% CI: 97.7-100.0); CRYO: 1% (95% CI: 0.2-5.3)]. Injecting clove oil under the horn bud was 87% (95% CI: 80.6-92.5) successful. Not removing the horn bud tissue after cautery disbudding reduced the efficacy of this method by 9% [91% success (95% CI: 83.8-95.7)]; moreover, this method was associated with more infection at the site of disbudding. It appears as though the clove oil treatment could be used as an alternative to cautery disbudding of dairy calves; however, further research is needed to evaluate the tissue damage and associated pain caused by clove oil and to refine this technique (i.e., administration methods to improve efficacy) before it could be considered an alternative to cautery.
30138389	Aspirin	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of intracranial hemorrhage (RICH) in users of oral antithrombotic drugs: Nationwide pharmacoepidemiological study.	BACKGROUND: The risks of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) associated with antithrombotic drugs outside clinical trials are gaining increased attention. The aim of this nationwide study was to investigate the risk of ICH requiring hospital admission in users of antithrombotic drugs. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Data from the Norwegian Patient Registry and Norwegian Prescription Database were linked on an individual level. The primary outcome was incidence rates of ICH associated with use of antithrombotic drugs. Secondary endpoints were risk of ICH and fatal outcome following ICH assessed by Cox models. Among 3,131,270 individuals >/=18 years old observed from 2008 through 2014, there were 729,818 users of antithrombotic medications and 22,111 ICH hospitalizations. Annual crude ICH rates per 100 person-years were 0.076 (95% CI, 0.075-0.077) in non-users and 0.30 (95% CI, 0.30-0.31) in users of antithrombotic medication, with the highest age and sex adjusted rates observed for aspirin-dipyridamole plus clopidogrel (0.44; 95% CI, 0.19-0.69), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (0.36; 95% CI, 0.16-0.56), warfarin plus aspirin (0.34; 95% CI, 0.26-0.43), and warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (0.33; 95% CI, 0.073-0.60). With no antithrombotic medication as reference, the highest adjusted hazard ratios (HR) for ICH were observed for aspirin-dypiridamole plus clopidogrel (6.29; 95% CI 3.71-10.7), warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (4.38; 95% CI 2.71-7.09), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (3.82; 95% CI, 2.46-5.95), and warfarin plus aspirin (3.40; 95% CI, 2.99-3.86). All antithrombotic medication regimens were associated with an increased risk of ICH, except dabigatran monotherapy (HR 1.20; 95% CI, 0.88-1.65) and dabigatran plus aspirin (HR 1.79; 95% CI, 0.96-3.34). Fatal outcome within 90 days was more common in users (2,603 of 8,055) than non-users (3,228 of 14,056) of antithrombotic medication (32.3% vs 23.0%, p<0.001), and was associated with use of warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (HR 2.89; 95% CI, 1.49-5.60), warfarin plus aspirin (HR 1.37; 95% CI, 1.11-1.68), aspirin plus clopidogrel (HR 1.30; 95% CI, 1.05-1.61), and warfarin (HR 1.19; 95% CI, 1.09-1.31). Increased one-year mortality was observed in users of antithrombotic medication following hemorrhagic stroke, subdural hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and traumatic ICH (all p<0.001). Limitations include those inherent to observational studies including the inability to make causal inferences, certain assumptions regarding drug exposure, and the possibility of residual confounding. CONCLUSIONS: The real-world incidence rates and risks of ICH were generally higher than reported in randomized controlled trials. There is still major room for improvement in terms of antithrombotic medication safety (clinicaltrials.gov NCT02481011).
30138389	Clopidogrel	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of intracranial hemorrhage (RICH) in users of oral antithrombotic drugs: Nationwide pharmacoepidemiological study.	BACKGROUND: The risks of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) associated with antithrombotic drugs outside clinical trials are gaining increased attention. The aim of this nationwide study was to investigate the risk of ICH requiring hospital admission in users of antithrombotic drugs. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Data from the Norwegian Patient Registry and Norwegian Prescription Database were linked on an individual level. The primary outcome was incidence rates of ICH associated with use of antithrombotic drugs. Secondary endpoints were risk of ICH and fatal outcome following ICH assessed by Cox models. Among 3,131,270 individuals >/=18 years old observed from 2008 through 2014, there were 729,818 users of antithrombotic medications and 22,111 ICH hospitalizations. Annual crude ICH rates per 100 person-years were 0.076 (95% CI, 0.075-0.077) in non-users and 0.30 (95% CI, 0.30-0.31) in users of antithrombotic medication, with the highest age and sex adjusted rates observed for aspirin-dipyridamole plus clopidogrel (0.44; 95% CI, 0.19-0.69), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (0.36; 95% CI, 0.16-0.56), warfarin plus aspirin (0.34; 95% CI, 0.26-0.43), and warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (0.33; 95% CI, 0.073-0.60). With no antithrombotic medication as reference, the highest adjusted hazard ratios (HR) for ICH were observed for aspirin-dypiridamole plus clopidogrel (6.29; 95% CI 3.71-10.7), warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (4.38; 95% CI 2.71-7.09), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (3.82; 95% CI, 2.46-5.95), and warfarin plus aspirin (3.40; 95% CI, 2.99-3.86). All antithrombotic medication regimens were associated with an increased risk of ICH, except dabigatran monotherapy (HR 1.20; 95% CI, 0.88-1.65) and dabigatran plus aspirin (HR 1.79; 95% CI, 0.96-3.34). Fatal outcome within 90 days was more common in users (2,603 of 8,055) than non-users (3,228 of 14,056) of antithrombotic medication (32.3% vs 23.0%, p<0.001), and was associated with use of warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (HR 2.89; 95% CI, 1.49-5.60), warfarin plus aspirin (HR 1.37; 95% CI, 1.11-1.68), aspirin plus clopidogrel (HR 1.30; 95% CI, 1.05-1.61), and warfarin (HR 1.19; 95% CI, 1.09-1.31). Increased one-year mortality was observed in users of antithrombotic medication following hemorrhagic stroke, subdural hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and traumatic ICH (all p<0.001). Limitations include those inherent to observational studies including the inability to make causal inferences, certain assumptions regarding drug exposure, and the possibility of residual confounding. CONCLUSIONS: The real-world incidence rates and risks of ICH were generally higher than reported in randomized controlled trials. There is still major room for improvement in terms of antithrombotic medication safety (clinicaltrials.gov NCT02481011).
30138389	Clopidogrel	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of intracranial hemorrhage (RICH) in users of oral antithrombotic drugs: Nationwide pharmacoepidemiological study.	BACKGROUND: The risks of intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) associated with antithrombotic drugs outside clinical trials are gaining increased attention. The aim of this nationwide study was to investigate the risk of ICH requiring hospital admission in users of antithrombotic drugs. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Data from the Norwegian Patient Registry and Norwegian Prescription Database were linked on an individual level. The primary outcome was incidence rates of ICH associated with use of antithrombotic drugs. Secondary endpoints were risk of ICH and fatal outcome following ICH assessed by Cox models. Among 3,131,270 individuals >/=18 years old observed from 2008 through 2014, there were 729,818 users of antithrombotic medications and 22,111 ICH hospitalizations. Annual crude ICH rates per 100 person-years were 0.076 (95% CI, 0.075-0.077) in non-users and 0.30 (95% CI, 0.30-0.31) in users of antithrombotic medication, with the highest age and sex adjusted rates observed for aspirin-dipyridamole plus clopidogrel (0.44; 95% CI, 0.19-0.69), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (0.36; 95% CI, 0.16-0.56), warfarin plus aspirin (0.34; 95% CI, 0.26-0.43), and warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (0.33; 95% CI, 0.073-0.60). With no antithrombotic medication as reference, the highest adjusted hazard ratios (HR) for ICH were observed for aspirin-dypiridamole plus clopidogrel (6.29; 95% CI 3.71-10.7), warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (4.38; 95% CI 2.71-7.09), rivaroxaban plus aspirin (3.82; 95% CI, 2.46-5.95), and warfarin plus aspirin (3.40; 95% CI, 2.99-3.86). All antithrombotic medication regimens were associated with an increased risk of ICH, except dabigatran monotherapy (HR 1.20; 95% CI, 0.88-1.65) and dabigatran plus aspirin (HR 1.79; 95% CI, 0.96-3.34). Fatal outcome within 90 days was more common in users (2,603 of 8,055) than non-users (3,228 of 14,056) of antithrombotic medication (32.3% vs 23.0%, p<0.001), and was associated with use of warfarin plus aspirin and clopidogrel (HR 2.89; 95% CI, 1.49-5.60), warfarin plus aspirin (HR 1.37; 95% CI, 1.11-1.68), aspirin plus clopidogrel (HR 1.30; 95% CI, 1.05-1.61), and warfarin (HR 1.19; 95% CI, 1.09-1.31). Increased one-year mortality was observed in users of antithrombotic medication following hemorrhagic stroke, subdural hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and traumatic ICH (all p<0.001). Limitations include those inherent to observational studies including the inability to make causal inferences, certain assumptions regarding drug exposure, and the possibility of residual confounding. CONCLUSIONS: The real-world incidence rates and risks of ICH were generally higher than reported in randomized controlled trials. There is still major room for improvement in terms of antithrombotic medication safety (clinicaltrials.gov NCT02481011).
29971761	Codeine	Dystonic Disorders	1	0	0	0		[Pisa syndrome associated with codeine].	
29687449	Felodipine	Gingival Overgrowth	1	1	0	0	0.0	Influence of 3 calcium channel blockers on gingival overgrowth in a population of severe refractory hypertensive patients.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to assess the association between 3 different calcium channel blockers (CCBs) (nifedipine, amlodipine and felodipine) and gingival overgrowth in patients with a diagnosis of severe refractory hypertension. METHODS: One hundred and sixty-two patients with severe refractory hypertension, taking CCBs, were selected. Gingival overgrowth was graded and periodontal measurements were recorded (probing pocket depth, clinical attachment level, plaque index and bleeding on probing). Unconditional multivariable binary logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the association between CCB intake and gingival overgrowth after adjusting for potential confounders. RESULTS: Of the 162 patients, 26 (16.0%) were current smokers and 101 (62.3%) were females. The mean age (SD) was 54.1 (8.5) years and the median age (range) 52.5 (39-78) years. Gingival overgrowth was observed in 55 patients (34.0%). Nifedipine was the most common medication (35.2%; 57 of 162). The results of multiple binary logistic regression showed statistically significant associations between CCB intake (exposure) and gingival overgrowth (outcome) after adjusting for the variables treatment time with antihypertensive and plaque index. Patients with gingival overgrowth were 2.5 (odds ratio = 2.46; 95% confidence interval: 1.04-5.82) and 4.0 (odds ratio = 3.90; 95% confidence interval: 1.47-10.35) times more likely to be taking nifedipine and amlodipine, respectively, than patients without gingival overgrowth. On the other hand, this significant association was not observed for felodipine. CONCLUSION: Nifedipine and amlodipine, but not felodipine, were associated with gingival overgrowth in patients with severe refractory hypertension.
29038892	Adalimumab	Folliculitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Pityriasis amiantacea and folliculitis decalvans : An unusual manifestation associated with antitumor necrosis factor-alpha therapy].	We report on a 21-year-old woman with a 3-year history of crusts and erosions on her scalp that had appeared after starting treatment with adalimumab due to Crohn's disease. By clinicopathological correlation pityriasis amiantacea with underlying folliculitis decalvans was diagnosed. Topical and systemic antibiotic treatment showed rapid response. The occurrence of pityriasis amiantacea in folliculitis decalvans associated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha inhibitor therapy is remarkable and highlights the ambivalent role of TNF-alpha in diseases with immunological dysfunctions in combination with infections.
29038892	Adalimumab	Pityriasis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Pityriasis amiantacea and folliculitis decalvans : An unusual manifestation associated with antitumor necrosis factor-alpha therapy].	We report on a 21-year-old woman with a 3-year history of crusts and erosions on her scalp that had appeared after starting treatment with adalimumab due to Crohn's disease. By clinicopathological correlation pityriasis amiantacea with underlying folliculitis decalvans was diagnosed. Topical and systemic antibiotic treatment showed rapid response. The occurrence of pityriasis amiantacea in folliculitis decalvans associated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha inhibitor therapy is remarkable and highlights the ambivalent role of TNF-alpha in diseases with immunological dysfunctions in combination with infections.
30474875	Vemurafenib	Photosensitivity Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe vemurafenib-induced photosensitivity in a 6-year-old boy.	Vemurafenib, a selective BRAF kinase inhibitor, has been found to induce several cutaneous adverse effects, ranging from a keratosis pilaris-like reaction to squamous cell carcinoma. While photosensitivity has been well described as one of these manifestations, we report a case of a 6-year-old boy on vemurafenib who developed a severe blistering sunburn after only two 30-minute episodes of sun exposure. A brief review of other common cutaneous adverse effects of vemurafenib is also provided.
28810284	Prednisolone	Optic Neuropathy, Ischemic	0	1	0	0		[Development of Non-Arteritic Anterior Ischaemic Optic Neuropathy in the Initially Unaffected Fellow Eye in Patients Treated with Systemic Corticosteroids].	Background The objective of this prospective pilot study was to evaluate the results of systemic corticosteroid therapy in patient with non-arteritic anterior ischaemic neuropathy of the optical nerve (NAION) for an observation period of one year and to measure the NAION incidence in the initially healthy contralateral eye of these patients. Patients and Methods All patients diagnosed with acute NAION who were admitted to our ward during 2014 and who fulfilled all inclusion criteria for systemic corticosteroid therapy were included in the study. The inclusion criteria were corrected visual acuity of 0.3 or less and duration of illness of less than 2 weeks. All patients were examined by a rheumatologist and given a complete ophthalmological examination, including fluorescein angiography and examination of the visual field. Only 3 of the 23 patients fulfilled our inclusion criteria for corticoid treatment and were then treated. 10 patients served as controls. The treatment plan started with an initial dose of 80 mg prednisolone during the first two weeks. The dose was then tapered over 3 to 4 months. Results The mean best corrected visual acuity on admission was 0.12 and 0.35 after one year. The mean duration of treatment was 3.3 months. Treatment was discontinued after 5 to 6 months or 8 to 9 months after the initial examination. All patients then developed NAION on the contralateral eye. The mean visual acuity on the contralateral eye was 0.73. After 4 month follow-up, the visual acuity in two patients had decreased to 1.0 and in one patient was reduced from 0.8 to 0.4. No steroid treatment was initiated for the contralateral eye. No NAION was found in the contralateral eye in the control group. Conclusion Corticosteroid treatment improved vision in all patients with NAION in comparison with the untreated contralateral eye. In a single patient, visual acuity decreased in the contralateral eye. Our study confirmed that corticosteroid treatment may be a predisposing factor for the development of NAION am in the contralateral eye. Additional studies with more patients are needed to confirm our results.
28700374	Exenatide	Panniculitis	1	0	0	0		Exenatide-Induced Panniculitis: Utility of the Acid-Fast Stain to Identify Injected Microspheres.	
30348532	Nivolumab	Arthritis	0	0	0	0		Immune-related adverse events are linked with improved progression-free survival in patients receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy.	BACKGROUND: Immune-related adverse events (irAEs) are commonly encountered, when using programmed death-1/programmed death-ligand-1 (anti-PD-1/PD-L1) therapy and are often managed with corticosteroids. The effect of irAEs, particularly when steroids are required, on patient survival is not well established. METHODS: In this retrospective analysis, data for 157 patients with various tumor types treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy were obtained. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses were used to assess the effect of irAEs and corticosteroids on progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: A total of 45 irAEs were recorded for 157 patients. Twenty-one patients received systemic corticosteroids. Patients who developed irAEs, as well as those who received systemic corticosteroids, had improved PFS by Kaplan-Meier estimate. Multivariate Cox regression showed that irAEs were associated with improved PFS (hazard ratio of 0.33, P <0.001) which persisted even with use of systemic corticosteroids (hazard ratio of 0.38, P = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS: irAEs are associated with improved PFS in patients receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. This association does not appear to be altered by the use of systemic corticosteroids.
30348532	Nivolumab	Pneumonia	0	0	0	0		Immune-related adverse events are linked with improved progression-free survival in patients receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy.	BACKGROUND: Immune-related adverse events (irAEs) are commonly encountered, when using programmed death-1/programmed death-ligand-1 (anti-PD-1/PD-L1) therapy and are often managed with corticosteroids. The effect of irAEs, particularly when steroids are required, on patient survival is not well established. METHODS: In this retrospective analysis, data for 157 patients with various tumor types treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy were obtained. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses were used to assess the effect of irAEs and corticosteroids on progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: A total of 45 irAEs were recorded for 157 patients. Twenty-one patients received systemic corticosteroids. Patients who developed irAEs, as well as those who received systemic corticosteroids, had improved PFS by Kaplan-Meier estimate. Multivariate Cox regression showed that irAEs were associated with improved PFS (hazard ratio of 0.33, P <0.001) which persisted even with use of systemic corticosteroids (hazard ratio of 0.38, P = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS: irAEs are associated with improved PFS in patients receiving anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. This association does not appear to be altered by the use of systemic corticosteroids.
29866170	Irinotecan	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Attenuated FOLFIRINOX in the salvage treatment of gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase II study.	BACKGROUND: Combination therapy with oxaliplatin, irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin (FOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy drastically improves survival of advanced pancreatic cancer patients. However, the efficacy of FOLFIRINOX as a second-line treatment after gemcitabine failure has not been tested prospectively. We investigated the feasibility and safety of attenuated FOLFIRINOX in patients with gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer. METHODS: A multicenter phase II prospective open-label, single-arm study was conducted at 14 hospitals. Patients with histologically proven invasive ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma, a measurable or evaluable lesion, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0 or 1, adequate organ function, and aged 19 years or older were eligible. Attenuated FOLFIRINOX consisted of oxaliplatin 65 mg/m(2), irinotecan 135 mg/m(2), and leucovorin 400 mg/m(2) injected intravenously on day 1 and 5-fluorouracil 2000 mg/m(2) continuously infused intravenously over 46 h on days 1-2, repeated every 2 weeks. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival from the initiation of FOLFIRINOX. Secondary endpoints were the objective response rate, disease control rate, overall survival, safety, and tolerability. We estimated overall survival and progression-free survival using the Kaplan-Meier methods. RESULTS: We enrolled 39 patients from 14 institutions. The objective response rate was 10.3%, while the disease control rate was 64.1%. The 6-month and 1-year overall survival rates were 59.0% and 15.4%, respectively. Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.8 months (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.5-6.0 months) and 8.5 months (95% CI 5.6-11.4 months), respectively. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were neutropenia (41.0%), nausea (10.3%), anorexia (10.3%), anemia (7.7%), mucositis (7.7%), pneumonia/pleural effusion (5.1%), and fatigue (5.1%). One treatment-related death attributable to septic shock occurred. CONCLUSION: Attenuated FOLFIRINOX may be promising as a second-line therapy for gemcitabine-refractory pancreatic cancer.
29866170	Oxaliplatin	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Attenuated FOLFIRINOX in the salvage treatment of gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase II study.	BACKGROUND: Combination therapy with oxaliplatin, irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin (FOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy drastically improves survival of advanced pancreatic cancer patients. However, the efficacy of FOLFIRINOX as a second-line treatment after gemcitabine failure has not been tested prospectively. We investigated the feasibility and safety of attenuated FOLFIRINOX in patients with gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer. METHODS: A multicenter phase II prospective open-label, single-arm study was conducted at 14 hospitals. Patients with histologically proven invasive ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma, a measurable or evaluable lesion, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0 or 1, adequate organ function, and aged 19 years or older were eligible. Attenuated FOLFIRINOX consisted of oxaliplatin 65 mg/m(2), irinotecan 135 mg/m(2), and leucovorin 400 mg/m(2) injected intravenously on day 1 and 5-fluorouracil 2000 mg/m(2) continuously infused intravenously over 46 h on days 1-2, repeated every 2 weeks. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival from the initiation of FOLFIRINOX. Secondary endpoints were the objective response rate, disease control rate, overall survival, safety, and tolerability. We estimated overall survival and progression-free survival using the Kaplan-Meier methods. RESULTS: We enrolled 39 patients from 14 institutions. The objective response rate was 10.3%, while the disease control rate was 64.1%. The 6-month and 1-year overall survival rates were 59.0% and 15.4%, respectively. Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.8 months (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.5-6.0 months) and 8.5 months (95% CI 5.6-11.4 months), respectively. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were neutropenia (41.0%), nausea (10.3%), anorexia (10.3%), anemia (7.7%), mucositis (7.7%), pneumonia/pleural effusion (5.1%), and fatigue (5.1%). One treatment-related death attributable to septic shock occurred. CONCLUSION: Attenuated FOLFIRINOX may be promising as a second-line therapy for gemcitabine-refractory pancreatic cancer.
29866170	Oxaliplatin	Neutropenia	1	0	0	0		Attenuated FOLFIRINOX in the salvage treatment of gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer: a phase II study.	BACKGROUND: Combination therapy with oxaliplatin, irinotecan, fluorouracil, and leucovorin (FOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy drastically improves survival of advanced pancreatic cancer patients. However, the efficacy of FOLFIRINOX as a second-line treatment after gemcitabine failure has not been tested prospectively. We investigated the feasibility and safety of attenuated FOLFIRINOX in patients with gemcitabine-refractory advanced pancreatic cancer. METHODS: A multicenter phase II prospective open-label, single-arm study was conducted at 14 hospitals. Patients with histologically proven invasive ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma, a measurable or evaluable lesion, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0 or 1, adequate organ function, and aged 19 years or older were eligible. Attenuated FOLFIRINOX consisted of oxaliplatin 65 mg/m(2), irinotecan 135 mg/m(2), and leucovorin 400 mg/m(2) injected intravenously on day 1 and 5-fluorouracil 2000 mg/m(2) continuously infused intravenously over 46 h on days 1-2, repeated every 2 weeks. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival from the initiation of FOLFIRINOX. Secondary endpoints were the objective response rate, disease control rate, overall survival, safety, and tolerability. We estimated overall survival and progression-free survival using the Kaplan-Meier methods. RESULTS: We enrolled 39 patients from 14 institutions. The objective response rate was 10.3%, while the disease control rate was 64.1%. The 6-month and 1-year overall survival rates were 59.0% and 15.4%, respectively. Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.8 months (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.5-6.0 months) and 8.5 months (95% CI 5.6-11.4 months), respectively. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were neutropenia (41.0%), nausea (10.3%), anorexia (10.3%), anemia (7.7%), mucositis (7.7%), pneumonia/pleural effusion (5.1%), and fatigue (5.1%). One treatment-related death attributable to septic shock occurred. CONCLUSION: Attenuated FOLFIRINOX may be promising as a second-line therapy for gemcitabine-refractory pancreatic cancer.
29853418	Moxifloxacin	Glaucoma, Open-Angle	1	0	1	1	1.0	Aqueous humor misdirection syndrome after glaucoma filtering surgery in patient with bilateral acute iris transillumination (BAIT) syndrome.	CASE REPORT: Bilateral Acute Iris Transillumination (BAIT) is a disease characterised by bilateral acute, severe pigment dispersion of the iris, and pupil sphincter paralysis. The case is reported of a 51-year-old female who was diagnosed with BAIT syndrome, with refractory ocular hypertension in the left eye, and who needed filtering surgery. Aqueous misdirection was developed a week after surgery, then pars plana vitrectomy was performed and the complication was solved. CONCLUSION: This is the first case described in literature of aqueous humor misdirection syndrome secondary to glaucoma filtering surgery in a patient diagnosed of BAIT syndrome. This is a recently defined disease with a few cases currently described.
29853418	Moxifloxacin	Mydriasis	1	0	1	1	1.0	Aqueous humor misdirection syndrome after glaucoma filtering surgery in patient with bilateral acute iris transillumination (BAIT) syndrome.	CASE REPORT: Bilateral Acute Iris Transillumination (BAIT) is a disease characterised by bilateral acute, severe pigment dispersion of the iris, and pupil sphincter paralysis. The case is reported of a 51-year-old female who was diagnosed with BAIT syndrome, with refractory ocular hypertension in the left eye, and who needed filtering surgery. Aqueous misdirection was developed a week after surgery, then pars plana vitrectomy was performed and the complication was solved. CONCLUSION: This is the first case described in literature of aqueous humor misdirection syndrome secondary to glaucoma filtering surgery in a patient diagnosed of BAIT syndrome. This is a recently defined disease with a few cases currently described.
29764506	Capecitabine	Heart Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cardiotoxicity of 5-fluorouracil and capecitabine in Chinese patients: a prospective study.	BACKGROUND: 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and capecitabine-associated cardiotoxicity ranging from asymptomatic electrocardiography (ECG) abnormalities to severe myocardial infarction has been reported in a number of studies, but such cardiotoxicity in Chinese patients with malignant diseases has not been investigated to date. In the present study, we aimed to prospectively evaluate the incidence rates and clinical manifestations of 5-FU- and capecitabine-associated cardiotoxicity in cancer patients recruited from multiple centers in China. METHODS: Among the 527 patients who completed the study, 196 received 5-FU-based chemotherapy and 331 received capecitabine-based chemotherapy as either first-line or adjuvant therapy. Adverse events were reported during the treatment and up to 28 days of follow-up. Outcome measures included ECG, myocardial enzymes, cardiac troponin, brain natriuretic peptide and echocardiography. Univariate analysis and logistic regression were performed for subgroup analysis and identification of significant independent variables that are associated with cardiotoxicity of both agents. RESULTS: In total, 161 of 527 patients (30.6%) experienced cardiotoxicity. The incidence rate of cardiotoxicity was 33.8% (112/331) in the capecitabine group, which was significantly higher than the rate of 25% (49/196) in the 5-FU group (P = 0.0042). 110/527 patients (20.9%) suffered arrhythmia, 105/527 (19.9%) developed ischemic changes, while only 20/527 patients (3.8%) presented heart failure and 6/527 patients (1.1%) had myocardial infarction. Pre-existing cardiac disease, hypertension, capecitabine-based chemotherapy and duration of treatment were identified as significant risk factors associated with cardiotoxicity. The odds ratio were 15.7 (prior history of cardiac disease versus no history), 1.86 (capecitabine versus 5-FU), 1.06 (5-8 versus 1-4 chemotherapy cycles) and 1.58 (hypertension versus no hypertension), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Cardiotoxicity induced by fluoropyrimidines in the Chinese population may be underestimated in clinical practice. Close monitoring of patients is recommended, especially for those patients at high risk for cardiotoxicity. Possible risk factors are duration of treatment, capecitabine-based chemotherapy, pre-existing cardiac diseases and hypertension. Trial registration This study was initiated on January 22, 2014 and has been retrospectively registered with the registration number ChiCTR1800015434.
29515069	Dasatinib	Mixed Connective Tissue Disease	1	1	1	1	1.0	[Mixed connective tissue disease with pulmonary hypertension developing in a chronic myeloid leukemia patient on dasatinib treatment].	A 37-year-old woman was diagnosed with chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia. Nilotinib treatment was initiated; however, it had to be discontinued due to an allergic reaction one month later, and dasatinib treatment was provided. Although favorable response was obtained, she started complaining of shortness of breath 7 months after initiating dasatinib treatment. Chest X-ray and echocardiography indicated pulmonary congestion and hypertension. Further, she was diagnosed with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) based on Raynaud phenomenon, swollen fingers, sclerodactyly, pancytopenia, hypocomplementemia, and positive anti-U1-RNP antibody. Consequently, dasatinib treatment was discontinued, and she was administered prednisolone (1 mg/kg/day), which was effective and successfully tapered with concomitant administration of cyclophosphamide. This is the first case of MCTD that developed during dasatinib treatment. However, because the present case was a young woman, the development of MCTD could probably be attributed to autoimmune diatheses or it may be a coincidence. However, the possibility of patients receiving dasatinib treatment developing autoimmune diseases needs to be assessed.
28865058	Insulin	Ketosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Combined metformin-associated lactic acidosis and euglycemic ketoacidosis.	BACKGROUND: In renal failure metformin can lead to lactic acidosis. Additional inhibition of hepatic gluconeogenesis by accumulation of the drug may aggravate fasting-induced ketoacidosis. We report the occurrence of metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA) with concurrent euglycemic ketoacidosis (MALKA) in three patients with renal failure. CASE PRESENTATIONS: Patient 1: a 78-year-old woman (pH = 6.89, lactic acid 22 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 7.4 mmol/l and blood glucose 63 mg/dl) on metformin and insulin treatment. Patient 2: a 79-year-old woman on metformin treatment (pH = 6.80, lactic acid 14.7 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 6.4 mmol/l and blood glucose 76 mg/dl). Patient 3: a 71-year-old man on metformin, canagliflozin and liraglutide treatment (pH = 7.21, lactic acid 5.9 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 16 mmol/l and blood glucose 150 mg/dl). In all patients, ketoacidosis receded on glucose infusion and renal replacement therapy. CONCLUSION: This case series highlights the parallel occurrence of MALA and euglycemic ketoacidosis, the latter exceeding ketosis due to starvation, suggesting a metformin-triggered inhibition of gluconeogenesis. Affected patients benefit from glucose infusion counteracting suppressed hepatic gluconeogenesis.
28865058	Liraglutide	Ketosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Combined metformin-associated lactic acidosis and euglycemic ketoacidosis.	BACKGROUND: In renal failure metformin can lead to lactic acidosis. Additional inhibition of hepatic gluconeogenesis by accumulation of the drug may aggravate fasting-induced ketoacidosis. We report the occurrence of metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA) with concurrent euglycemic ketoacidosis (MALKA) in three patients with renal failure. CASE PRESENTATIONS: Patient 1: a 78-year-old woman (pH = 6.89, lactic acid 22 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 7.4 mmol/l and blood glucose 63 mg/dl) on metformin and insulin treatment. Patient 2: a 79-year-old woman on metformin treatment (pH = 6.80, lactic acid 14.7 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 6.4 mmol/l and blood glucose 76 mg/dl). Patient 3: a 71-year-old man on metformin, canagliflozin and liraglutide treatment (pH = 7.21, lactic acid 5.9 mmol/l, serum ketoacids 16 mmol/l and blood glucose 150 mg/dl). In all patients, ketoacidosis receded on glucose infusion and renal replacement therapy. CONCLUSION: This case series highlights the parallel occurrence of MALA and euglycemic ketoacidosis, the latter exceeding ketosis due to starvation, suggesting a metformin-triggered inhibition of gluconeogenesis. Affected patients benefit from glucose infusion counteracting suppressed hepatic gluconeogenesis.
30577200	Tacrolimus	Lymphocele	1	0	0	0		Comparison of Sirolimus Combined With Tacrolimus and Mycophenolate Mofetil Combined With Tacrolimus in Kidney Transplantation Recipients: A Meta-Analysis.	PURPOSE: The study was designed to compare the outcomes of sirolimus (SRL) combined with tacrolimus (TAC) and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) combined with TAC in kidney transplantation recipients. METHODS: A literature search of PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science was performed to identify relevant studies, and the last update was on February 1, 2018. All studies with appropriate data comparing the SRL group with the MMF group were included. SRL and MMF were used in sufficient doses. Relevant information was recorded and analyzed. Odds ratios (ORs) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were used to assess the effects of SRL and MMF. Relevant outcomes, including delayed graft function, acute rejection, graft survival, seroma, anemia, lymphocele, and hyperlipidemia, were compared. RESULTS: Ten studies with a total of 2357 patients (n = 1256 receiving SRL vs n = 1101 receiving MMF) were ultimately included. Our results indicated that the SRL group experienced a higher rate of hyperlipidemia (OR: 1.864; 95% CI, 1.494-2.325) and lymphocele (OR: 2.58; 95% CI, 1.49-4.47). However, no significant differences were detected regarding the rates of delayed graft function, acute rejection, graft survival, infectious complications, anemia, or seroma. CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis suggested that SRL combined with TAC and MMF combined with TAC were equally safe and effective for the kidney transplantation recipients. However, the MMF group exhibited a marginally significant advantage of lower incidence of hyperlipidemia and lymphocele.
30153332	Iopamidol	Anemia, Hemolytic	1	0	0	0		Immune hemolysis secondary to injection of contrast medium.	BACKGROUND: Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia (DIIHA) is a rare but sometimes severe side effect. CASE REPORT: We describe the case of a 32-year-old patient who presented a cardiovascular collapse and a severe hemolysis secondary to the injection of iomeprol, a contrast medium, after a carcinologic surgery. RESULTS: The evolution was favorable after blood transfusion and short catecholamine support. The biology showed drug-dependent antibodies after incubation with iomeprol. CONCLUSION: This case is the second report of DIIHA with iomeprol.
29134721	Brompheniramine	Tooth Erosion	0	1	0	0		ATR-FTIR spectroscopy and mu-EDXRF spectrometry monitoring of enamel erosion caused by medicaments used in the treatment of respiratory diseases.	Medicaments essential for alleviation of diseases may sometime adversely affect dental health by eroding the enamel, owing to their acidic nature. It is therefore highly desirable to be able to detect these effects quickly and reliably. In this study, we evaluated the erosive capacity of four most commonly prescribed respiratory disease syrup medicaments on enamel using micro-energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence spectrometry (micro-EDXRF) and attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR). Fifty-five enamel fragments obtained from 30 bovine teeth were treated with artificial saliva (S), acebrofilin hydrochloride (AC), ambroxol hydrochloride (AM), bromhexine hydrochloride (BR), and salbutamol sulfate (SS); by immersing in 3 mL of respective solutions for 1 min, three times a day at intervals of 1 hr, for 5 days. micro-EDXRF analysis of enamel surface did not reveal significant erosion caused by the medications. However, ATR-FTIR showed a detectable shift in the phosphate (PO(4) ) antisymmetric stretching mode (nu(3) ) at  approximately 985 cm(-1) for AM, BR, and SS, indicating erosion. Multivariate statistical analysis showed that AC, AM, SS, and BR could be classified with 70%, 80%, 100%, and 100% efficiency from S (control), further highlighting the ability of ATR-FTIR to identify degree of erosion. This suggests ATR-FTIR may be used to rapidly and nondestructively investigate erosive effects of medicaments.
29134721	Pseudoephedrine	Tooth Erosion	0	1	0	0		ATR-FTIR spectroscopy and mu-EDXRF spectrometry monitoring of enamel erosion caused by medicaments used in the treatment of respiratory diseases.	Medicaments essential for alleviation of diseases may sometime adversely affect dental health by eroding the enamel, owing to their acidic nature. It is therefore highly desirable to be able to detect these effects quickly and reliably. In this study, we evaluated the erosive capacity of four most commonly prescribed respiratory disease syrup medicaments on enamel using micro-energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence spectrometry (micro-EDXRF) and attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR). Fifty-five enamel fragments obtained from 30 bovine teeth were treated with artificial saliva (S), acebrofilin hydrochloride (AC), ambroxol hydrochloride (AM), bromhexine hydrochloride (BR), and salbutamol sulfate (SS); by immersing in 3 mL of respective solutions for 1 min, three times a day at intervals of 1 hr, for 5 days. micro-EDXRF analysis of enamel surface did not reveal significant erosion caused by the medications. However, ATR-FTIR showed a detectable shift in the phosphate (PO(4) ) antisymmetric stretching mode (nu(3) ) at  approximately 985 cm(-1) for AM, BR, and SS, indicating erosion. Multivariate statistical analysis showed that AC, AM, SS, and BR could be classified with 70%, 80%, 100%, and 100% efficiency from S (control), further highlighting the ability of ATR-FTIR to identify degree of erosion. This suggests ATR-FTIR may be used to rapidly and nondestructively investigate erosive effects of medicaments.
30381664	Calcium Oxalate	Kidney Diseases	0	0	0	0		UPLC/MS-Based Metabolomics Investigation of the Protective Effect of Hydrogen Gas Inhalation on Mice with Calcium Oxalate-Induced Renal Injury.	Hydrogen has a significant protective effect on calcium oxalate-induced renal injury, but its effect on metabolic profiles is unknown. This study showed the effects of hydrogen on serum and urine metabolites in a renal injury model. Ultra-HPLC quadrupole time-of-flight-MS-based metabolomics was used to characterise metabolic variations. Twenty-five serum metabolites and 14 urine metabolites showed differences in the the nitrogen and oxygen inhalation (NO), nitrogen and oxygen inhalation combined with calcium oxalate induction (CaOx), and hydrogen inhalation combined with calcium oxalate induction (HO+CaOx) groups. Nineteen serum metabolites and 7 urine metabolites showed significant restoration to normal levels after hydrogen gas (H(2)) treatment. These metabolites are primarily related to amino acid metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, and phospholipid metabolism. This study showed that a comprehensive metabolomics approach is an effective strategy to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the effects of hydrogen treatment on calcium oxalate-induced renal injury.
30139653	Aluminum	Autism Spectrum Disorder	0	0	0	0		Aluminum in vaccines: Does it create a safety problem?	For almost a century, aluminum (Al) in the form of Al oxyhydroxide (a crystalline compound), Al hydroxyphosphate (an amorphous Al phosphate hydroxide), Al phosphate, and Al potassium sulfate has been used to improve the immunogenicity of vaccines. Al is currently included in vaccines against tetanus, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, human papillomavirus, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and infections due to Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis. Official health authorities consider the inclusion of Al in most of the presently recommended vaccines to be extremely effective and sufficiently safe. However, the inclusion of Al salts in vaccines has been debated for several years because of studies that seem to indicate that chronic Al exposure through vaccine administration can interfere with cellular and metabolic processes leading to severe neurologic diseases. Children, who in their first years of life receive several vaccine doses over a reduced period of time, would be most susceptible to any risk that might be associated with vaccines or vaccine components. The main aim of this paper was to discuss the data presently available regarding Al neurotoxicity and the risk for children receiving vaccines or other pharmaceutical preparations containing Al. Analysis of the literature showed that no apparent reason exists to support the elimination of Al from vaccines for fear of neurotoxicity. The only problem that deserves attention is the suggested relationship between Al oxyhydroxide-containing vaccines and macrophagic myofaciitis or myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome. Currently, definitive conclusions cannot be drawn on these risks and further studies must be conducted. Until then, Al remains the best solution to improve vaccine efficacy.
30139653	Aluminum	Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic	0	0	0	0		Aluminum in vaccines: Does it create a safety problem?	For almost a century, aluminum (Al) in the form of Al oxyhydroxide (a crystalline compound), Al hydroxyphosphate (an amorphous Al phosphate hydroxide), Al phosphate, and Al potassium sulfate has been used to improve the immunogenicity of vaccines. Al is currently included in vaccines against tetanus, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, human papillomavirus, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and infections due to Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis. Official health authorities consider the inclusion of Al in most of the presently recommended vaccines to be extremely effective and sufficiently safe. However, the inclusion of Al salts in vaccines has been debated for several years because of studies that seem to indicate that chronic Al exposure through vaccine administration can interfere with cellular and metabolic processes leading to severe neurologic diseases. Children, who in their first years of life receive several vaccine doses over a reduced period of time, would be most susceptible to any risk that might be associated with vaccines or vaccine components. The main aim of this paper was to discuss the data presently available regarding Al neurotoxicity and the risk for children receiving vaccines or other pharmaceutical preparations containing Al. Analysis of the literature showed that no apparent reason exists to support the elimination of Al from vaccines for fear of neurotoxicity. The only problem that deserves attention is the suggested relationship between Al oxyhydroxide-containing vaccines and macrophagic myofaciitis or myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome. Currently, definitive conclusions cannot be drawn on these risks and further studies must be conducted. Until then, Al remains the best solution to improve vaccine efficacy.
30047118	Fingolimod Hydrochloride	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		[Efficacy and safety of fingolimod in routine clinical practice in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in Spain: an intermediate analysis of the MS NEXT study].	INTRODUCTION: Fingolimod is a disease modifying therapies, which has showed clinical efficacy and an acceptable safety profile in clinical trials with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients. AIM: To assess fingolimod effectiveness and safety in patients with RRMS in clinical practice. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We present an interim analysis (July 2015) of MS NEXT, an observational, retrospective and multicenter study. 442 patients were included (mean age: 41 +/- 9 years; median baseline EDSS: 3.0; 70% female; 284 previously treated with first-line disease modifying therapies, 139 with natalizumab and 19 without a previous treatment; mean fingolimod treatment duration: 25 +/- 9 months) treated with fingolimod from November 2011 and with at least 12 months follow-up. 56 neurology-unit Spanish hospitals enrolled patients. Basal clinical and demographic data were recorded. Relapses, EDSS scores and radiological activity were recorded at baseline and annually. Adverse events were also recorded during the follow-up period. RESULTS: After two years of follow-up: annual relapse rates decreased by 76%, the proportion of relapse-free patients was 67%, of disability progression-free patients confirmed at 3 months was 91%, of relapse and disability progression-free patients was 63%, of radiological activity-free patients was 50%, and the proportion of relapse, disability progression and radiological activity-free patients was 35%. Only 3.9% of patients discontinued fingolimod permanently during the first year of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: In this interim analysis, most of patients treated with fingolimod in clinical practice had a controlled clinical disease activity, stable disability progression and high persistency.
30047118	Fingolimod Hydrochloride	Hematologic Diseases	0	0	0	0		[Efficacy and safety of fingolimod in routine clinical practice in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis in Spain: an intermediate analysis of the MS NEXT study].	INTRODUCTION: Fingolimod is a disease modifying therapies, which has showed clinical efficacy and an acceptable safety profile in clinical trials with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients. AIM: To assess fingolimod effectiveness and safety in patients with RRMS in clinical practice. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We present an interim analysis (July 2015) of MS NEXT, an observational, retrospective and multicenter study. 442 patients were included (mean age: 41 +/- 9 years; median baseline EDSS: 3.0; 70% female; 284 previously treated with first-line disease modifying therapies, 139 with natalizumab and 19 without a previous treatment; mean fingolimod treatment duration: 25 +/- 9 months) treated with fingolimod from November 2011 and with at least 12 months follow-up. 56 neurology-unit Spanish hospitals enrolled patients. Basal clinical and demographic data were recorded. Relapses, EDSS scores and radiological activity were recorded at baseline and annually. Adverse events were also recorded during the follow-up period. RESULTS: After two years of follow-up: annual relapse rates decreased by 76%, the proportion of relapse-free patients was 67%, of disability progression-free patients confirmed at 3 months was 91%, of relapse and disability progression-free patients was 63%, of radiological activity-free patients was 50%, and the proportion of relapse, disability progression and radiological activity-free patients was 35%. Only 3.9% of patients discontinued fingolimod permanently during the first year of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: In this interim analysis, most of patients treated with fingolimod in clinical practice had a controlled clinical disease activity, stable disability progression and high persistency.
29622100	Nivolumab	Cranial Nerve Diseases	1	0	0	0		Multiple Cranial Neuropathies From Nivolumab in a Patient With Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	
29607626	Vildagliptin	Inflammation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Drug fever and acute inflammation from hypercytokinemia triggered by dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor vildagliptin.	A 69-year-old man started taking the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, vildagliptin. One week later, C-reactive protein and plasma immunoglobulin E levels were markedly elevated, and the vildagliptin was stopped. After the patient's laboratory findings were normalized, we decided to restart vildagliptin with the patient's agreement. The next day, he had a high fever, and C-reactive protein and procalcitonin levels were elevated. Although we failed to find a focus of infection, we started antibiotics therapy. Two days later, the high fever had improved, and the C-reactive protein level had decreased. A drug lymphocyte stimulation test showed a positive result for vildagliptin. We examined various kinds of cytokine and infection markers just before and after the treatment with vildagliptin. Finally, we diagnosed the patient with vildagliptin-induced drug fever, probably based on the increase of various inflammatory cytokine levels and the response to this. Taken together, we should be aware of the possibility of vildagliptin inducing drug fever and/or acute inflammation.
29575764	Amitriptyline	Sialorrhea	0	0	0	0		An increase in salivary flow with amitriptyline may indicate treatment resistance in burning mouth syndrome.	
29410009	Olanzapine	Hypercholesterolemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Serum IL-1ra, a novel biomarker predicting olanzapine-induced hypercholesterolemia and hyperleptinemia in schizophrenia.	Olanzapine (OLZ) is efficacious whereas leads to adverse metabolic effects thus lead to higher risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) on schizophrenia. Cytokines have been found associated with metabolic disorders. Therefore, pretreatment prediction of OLZ-induced adverse metabolic effects is urgently needed. To investigate if baseline cytokine levels could become biomarkers for pathogenesis of schizophrenia or prediction for OLZ-induced adverse metabolic effects, we recruited 75 participants, including 23 schizophrenia inpatients, who were antipsychotic-free over the past 6 months or first episode and drug-naive and 52 matched health controls, in our prospective cohort study and cross-sectional study. We simultaneously examined 7 serum cytokine levels (IFN-gamma, IL-1ra, IL-1beta, IL-8, TNF-alpha, MCP-1, VEGF) before OLZ treatment by using liquid suspension array technique and obtained clinical correlates at 4-week intervals in total 8 weeks. The psychopathology was assessed with the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS). The metabolic parameters were BMI, TG, total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, ApoA1, ApoB, lipoprotein a, fasting glucose, HbA1c, insulin, and leptin. At baseline, IL-1ra and MCP-1 levels in schizophrenia were significantly higher than health controls (t = 4.55, P = 0.0001, t = 3.08 P = 0.003). BMI, fasting insulin, cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL, ApoB and leptin were significantly increased in patients with schizophrenia after 8 weeks of olanzapine treatment. Correlation analysis showed that the baseline IL-1ra level were significantly correlated with the increased levels of cholesterol (P = 0.004), LDL (P = 0.005), ApoB (P = 0.018) and leptin (P = 0.010), but not with the increased BMI, insulin or triglycerides. Further stepwise multiple linear regression analysis indicated that IL-1ra levels prior to treatment remained significantly associated with increased levels of cholesterol, LDL, ApoB and leptin. Above all, higher IL-1ra and MCP-1 levels may be biomarkers indicating pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Higher serum levels of IL-1ra may predict subsequent higher possibility of hypercholesterolemia and hyperleptinemia following OLZ treatment in schizophrenia patients.
29395357	Ibuprofen	Sinusitis	0	0	0	0		52-Year-Old Man With Hyposmia, Rhinorrhea, and Wheezing.	
28987296	Phosphorus	Brugada Syndrome	0	1	1	1	1.0	Yellow phosphorus-induced Brugada phenocopy.	BACKGROUND: Metallic phosphides (of aluminum and phosphide) and yellow phosphorus are commonly used rodenticide compounds in developing countries. Toxicity of yellow phosphorus mostly pertains to the liver, kidney, heart, pancreas and the brain. Cardiotoxicity with associated Brugada ECG pattern has been reported only in poisoning with metallic phosphides. METHODS AND RESULTS: Brugada phenocopy and hepatic dysfunction were observed in a 29-year-old male following yellow phosphorus consumption. He had both type 1 (day1) and type 2 (day2) Brugada patterns in the electrocardiogram, which resolved spontaneously by the third day without hemodynamic compromise. CONCLUSION: Toxins such as aluminum and zinc phosphide have been reported to induce Brugada ECG patterns due to the generation of phosphine. We report the first case of yellow phosphorus-related Brugada phenocopy, without hemodynamic compromise or malignant arrhythmia.
30695709	Pyrethrins	Neurodegenerative Diseases	0	1	0	0		Proteasome inhibition by MG-132 protects against deltamethrin-induced apoptosis in rat hippocampus.	AIMS: Deltamethrin (DM), a type II synthetic pyrethroid insecticide, is widely used in agriculture and home pest control. The evaluation of their toxic effects is of major concern to public health. However, the molecular mechanism of DM-induced neurodegenerative disease is still far from clear. This study was designed to investigate the potential role of ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in DM-induced neurotoxicity where the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 could mitigate the neurotoxic effects. MAIN METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two batches. The first batch of rats was administrated with a single dose of DM (12.5 mg/kg) by intraperitoneal injections (i.p.) and the animals were then euthanized at 5, 24, and 48 h post injection. The second batch was treated as follow: control group, DM (12.5 mg/kg) groups for 24 h, MG-132 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 2 h plus DM 24 h group, and MG-132 alone group. Ubiqutinatied proteins, DNA damage and apoptosis were investigated. KEY FINDINGS: DM treatment induced the ubiquitinated proteins expression with the peaks at 5 h. Moreover, DM increased DNA damage, early apoptotic rate, the expression level of Cleaved Caspase-3, caspase-3 activity and decreased the expression level of Bcl-2 at DM 24 h group. Compared to DM 24 h group, MG-132 pretreatment significantly down-regulated ubiquitinated proteins, lowered the DNA damage and apoptosis by decreasing Caspase-3 and increasing Bcl-2 expression. SIGNIFICANCE: These results indicate that MG-132 effectively alleviates DM-induced DNA damage and apoptosis by inhibiting ubiquitinated proteins. UPS may play a role in DM-induced neurodegenerative disorders.
30601287	Riboflavin	Corneal Ulcer	0	Yes 	0	0		Late-Onset Sterile Peripheral Ulcerative Keratitis Post-Corneal Collagen Crosslinking.	PURPOSE: To report the incidence, characteristics, clinical presentations, risk factors, and the available treatment modalities of sterile peripheral ulcerative keratitis (PUK) post-corneal collagen crosslinking (CXL). METHODS: This study is a retrospective study including 771 eyes of 474 patients operated for keratoconus or ectasia after LASIK between January 2010 and June 2017 at Beirut Eye & ENT Specialist hospital. The average follow-up period was 4.2 years with a minimum of 1 year post-CXL. RESULTS: Eleven eyes (1.4%) of 8 patients developed late-onset PUK with or without corneal haze and sterile infiltrates. The complications occurred between 3 months and 6 years postoperatively. Their mean age of 39.6 +/- 7.1 years was higher than the age of the noncomplicated patients 21.9 +/- 8.8 years (P = 0.0001). Four affected patients had inflammatory and autoimmune conditions. Sex, presence of intrastromal ring segments, mean keratometry, and the thinnest pachymetry were found to be insignificantly different between groups, and photorefractive keratectomy was performed more in patients with keratitis. Duration of ultraviolet light exposure was related to sterile ulcerative keratitis development. All patients responded to steroid treatment, and only one had a relapse which resolved with topical cyclosporine 1% drops. CONCLUSIONS: PUK is a rare but serious complication after CXL. Long-term follow-up is necessary to detect late-onset PUK. It is a treatable condition associated with older age and autoimmune conditions but has a good visual outcome.
30539844	Temozolomide	Cognitive Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		A prospective longitudinal evaluation of cognition and depression in postoperative patients with high-grade glioma following radiotherapy and chemotherapy.	AIM OF STUDY: The survival rate in high-grade glioma (HGG) patients receiving a combined regimen of radiotherapy (RT) and temozolomide after tumor resection was increased. However, cognitive deficits and depression after the treatments challenge the treatments. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cognition and depression in postoperative patients with HGG following RT and chemotherapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Six-five eligible patients were included in the study. Cognition and depression were examined at baseline (after surgery before RT), every 3 months during follow-up using mini-mental state examination and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), respectively. RESULTS: Our results showed that cognition was not significantly affected after treatments (F = 1.19, P = 0.32). However, significant differences between baseline and follow-ups were found regarding SDS scores (F = 3.26, P =0.0.01). SDS score at the 3(rd) month was significantly higher than that at baseline (t = -3.16, P = 0.002). CONCLUSION: This prospective study showed that although cognition was not significantly affected, the treatment caused depression, particularly at the 3(rd) month. These data implicated that interventions should be designed to deal with depression in the 3(rd) month.
30539844	Temozolomide	Depression	0	0	0	0		A prospective longitudinal evaluation of cognition and depression in postoperative patients with high-grade glioma following radiotherapy and chemotherapy.	AIM OF STUDY: The survival rate in high-grade glioma (HGG) patients receiving a combined regimen of radiotherapy (RT) and temozolomide after tumor resection was increased. However, cognitive deficits and depression after the treatments challenge the treatments. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cognition and depression in postoperative patients with HGG following RT and chemotherapy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Six-five eligible patients were included in the study. Cognition and depression were examined at baseline (after surgery before RT), every 3 months during follow-up using mini-mental state examination and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS), respectively. RESULTS: Our results showed that cognition was not significantly affected after treatments (F = 1.19, P = 0.32). However, significant differences between baseline and follow-ups were found regarding SDS scores (F = 3.26, P =0.0.01). SDS score at the 3(rd) month was significantly higher than that at baseline (t = -3.16, P = 0.002). CONCLUSION: This prospective study showed that although cognition was not significantly affected, the treatment caused depression, particularly at the 3(rd) month. These data implicated that interventions should be designed to deal with depression in the 3(rd) month.
30539828	Sorafenib	Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bleeding risk in cancer patients treated with sorafenib: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	OBJECTIVE: Sorafenib, an oral vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine-kinase inhibitor, has become a cornerstone in the treatment of various malignancies. However, concerns have arisen regarding the risk of hemorrhage with sorafenib use. Nevertheless, the contribution of sorafenib to hemorrhage and the underlying risk factors remains unclear. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis to determine the incidence and risk of hemorrhage associated with sorafenib treatment. Multiple databases were searched to identify relevant studies. The analysis included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that directly compared cancer patients treated with or without sorafenib. Statistical analyses were conducted to determine the overall incidence, relative risks (RRs), and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) using fixed- or random-effect models. RESULTS: Ten RCTs involving 4720 patients were included in the analysis. Overall, the incidence rates of all- and high-grade hemorrhage in patients receiving sorafenib were 9.89% (95% CI: 8.73-11.18%) and 2.86% (95% CI: 2.25-3.63%), respectively. Sorafenib treatment increased the risk of all-grade hemorrhage in patients compared to control treatment (RR: 1.99; 95% CI: 1.59-2.49; P < 0.00001), but did not increase the incidence of high-grade hemorrhage (RR: 1.42; 95% CI: 0.95-2.12; P = 0.09). Subgroup analysis showed no significant increase in the risk of hemorrhage between patients with various malignancies or concurrent treatment. No evidence of publication bias was observed. CONCLUSION: In patients with malignancy, sorafenib treatment combined with standard treatment significantly increases the risk of low-grade hemorrhagic events.
30406128	Amoxicillin	Long QT Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk Evaluation of Azithromycin-Induced QT Prolongation in Real-World Practice.	BACKGROUND: Azithromycin exposure has been reported to increase the risk of QT prolongation and cardiovascular death. However, findings on the association between azithromycin and cardiovascular death are controversial, and azithromycin is still used in actual practice. Additionally, quantitative assessments of risk have not been performed, including the risk of QT prolongation when patients are exposed to azithromycin in a real-world clinical setting. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the risk of exposure to azithromycin on QT prolongation in a real-world clinical setting using a 21-year medical history database of a tertiary medical institution. METHODS: We analyzed the electrocardiogram results and relevant electronic health records of 402,607 subjects in a tertiary teaching hospital in Korea from 1996 to 2015. To evaluate the risk of QT prolongation of azithromycin, we conducted a case-control analysis using amoxicillin for comparison. Multiple logistic regression analysis was performed to correct for age, sex, accompanying drugs, and disease. RESULTS: The odds ratio (OR) for QT prolongation (QTc>450 ms in male and >460 ms in female) on azithromycin exposure was 1.40 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.23-1.59), and the OR for severe QT prolongation (QTc>500 ms) was 1.43 (95% CI, 1.13-1.82). On the other hand, the ORs on exposure to amoxicillin were 1.06 (95% CI, 0.97-1.15) and 0.88 (95% CI, 0.70-1.09). In a subgroup analysis, the risk of QT prolongation in patients aged between 60 and 80 years was significantly higher when they are exposed to azithromycin. CONCLUSIONS: The risk of QT prolongation was increased when patients, particularly the elderly aged 60-79 years, were exposed to azithromycin. Therefore, clinicians should pay exercise caution using azithromycin or consider using other antibiotics, such as amoxicillin, instead of azithromycin.
30220530	Cyclosporine	Carcinogenesis	0	0	0	0		The mTOR-inhibitor Sirolimus decreases the cyclosporine-induced expression of the oncogene ATF3 in human keratinocytes.	BACKGROUND: Due to their immunosuppressive therapy, organtransplant recipients (OTRs) exhibit a high incidence for the development of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC). Randomized studies of kidney-transplanted patients indicate a significant lower susceptibility for cSCC among patients receiving the mTOR-inhibitor Sirolimus, compared to patients without mTOR-regimen. The exact mechanism, how mTOR inhibition affects keratinocyte carcinogenesis remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to investigate the impact of Sirolimus on the expression level of the oncogene ATF3, which is involved in the development and progression of cSCC. METHODS: We incubated human keratinocytes, cSSC cell lines and 3D skin equivalents with Sirolimus, exposed the cells to calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) and UVA-radiation and measured the expression level of ATF3 by real-time PCR and western blot. RESULTS: We show that Sirolimus downregulates the expression of ATF3 induced by cyclosporine or cyclosporine plus UV-radiation in keratinocytes. In line with this we demonstrate a decrease in ATF3 expression, by incubating 3D skin equivalents with Sirolimus prior to cyclosporine and UV-light. However, Sirolimus has no significant impact on the ATF3 expression levels of cyclosporine stimulated cSCC cell lines. CONCLUSION: Taken together, our study demonstrates that Sirolimus downregulates the CNI or UV-induced ATF3 expression in human keratinocytes, which could be a potential molecular mechanism how Sirolimus reduces cSCC in OTRs. The lack of ATF3 suppression by Sirolimus in cSCC cell lines fits to observations from clinical studies which demonstrated a clinical benefit from the switch to a mTOR-regimen in patients with low tumor burden in early stage of disease.
29170906	Bevacizumab	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	0	0	0		Bevacizumab and risk of intracranial hemorrhage in patients with brain metastases: a meta-analysis.	Administration of bevacizumab to patients with brain metastases (BM) is controversial due to concerns about the increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). This meta-analysis assessed whether the risk of ICH increases in BM patients receiving treatments that contain bevacizumab versus without. PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library and annual meeting abstracts of the American Society of Clinical Oncology up to 13 November 2016 were searched for studies that referred to ICH complications due to bevacizumab in patients with BM. Eight studies involving 8713 patients were included in this analysis. Compared with the control arm without bevacizumab, the bevacizumab treatment arm did not exhibit a significant increase in ICH [odds ratio (OR) 1.20; 95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.69-2.09; P = 0.53]. Subgroup analyses with retrospective studies showed a similar result, although subgroup analyses with prospective studies failed. This meta-analysis revealed that bevacizumab does not significantly increase the risk of ICH in solid tumor patients with BM.
28885992	Ursodeoxycholic Acid	Atrial Fibrillation	1	0	0	0		Ursodiol-Associated Paroxysmal Atrial Fibrillation.	
28346304	Lamotrigine	Alopecia	1	0	0	0		Lamotrigine Induces Hair Loss in a Patient With Treatment-Resistant Major Depressive Disorder.	
28005556	Lamotrigine	Lymphohistiocytosis, Hemophagocytic	1	0	0	0		Lamotrigine-Associated Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis.	
27763890	Enoxaparin	Rupture, Spontaneous	1	0	0	0		Enoxaparin-Induced Spontaneous Rupture of Spleen Leading to Life Threatening Hypotensive Shock.	
27763888	Doxycycline	Anemia, Aplastic	1	0	0	0		Very Severe Aplastic Anemia During Treatment With Doxycycline.	
30762762	Amiodarone	Pregnancy Complications, Cardiovascular	1	0	0	0		Aggravation of atrial arrhythmia by amiodarone during the perinatal period: A case report.	RATIONALE: Amiodarone, a broad-spectrum antiarrhythmic drug, is widely used for the clinical treatment of tachyarrhythmias because of its safety and efficacy. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 30-year-old woman presented with known paroxysmal atrial tachycardia and severe preeclampsia. Two days before admission, she had given birth to twins. She described her symptoms as a sudden palpitation at 10:20 accompanied by chest tightness and shortness of breath. DIAGNOSIS: Cardiac arrhythmia and acute left heart failure. INTERVENTIONS: Furosemide and sodium nitroprusside were administered to control the heart failure. At 16:20, 150 mg amiodarone (15 mg/min) was injected intravenously and continued at 1 mg/min. At 16:50, her electrocardiogram showed possible atrial tachycardia or atrial flutter with a ventricular rate of 206 beats/min. Administration of amiodarone was stopped at 17:23, and the medication was changed to esmolol. OUTCOMES: After 3 minutes, the palpitations stopped, the heart rate changed to a sinus rhythm, and the ventricular rate was 100 beats/min. Four days later, the patient underwent an electrophysiologic study and radiofrequency ablation. LESSONS: When amiodarone is used to treat atrial arrhythmia, the ventricular rate may accelerate, which can cause patients with borderline heart failure to develop acute heart failure or further deterioration of acute heart failure. For heart failure induced or mediated by atrial arrhythmias, short-term beta-blockers may be used to control the ventricular rate more quickly and effectively and to prevent the progression of heart failure.
30608913	Telbivudine	Muscular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Telbivudine-Induced Myopathy Incidentally Detected by FDG PET/CT Imaging in a Patient With History of Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	Myopathy is an adverse effect of telbivudine. We describe a case of telbivudine-induced myopathy visualized on FDG PET/CT in a 75-year-old man with history of chronic HBV infection and hepatocellular carcinoma. FDG PET/CT images demonstrate no abnormal uptake characteristic of hypermetabolic malignancy. However, intense hypermetabolic activity in muscles of the abdominal wall was noted. Three months after telbivudine withdrawal, a second FDG PET/CT showed normal muscle activity in the abdominal wall.
30566419	Ertapenem	Hallucinations	1	0	0	0		Atypical Presentation of Ertapenum-Associated Hallucinations in a Patient With Psychiatric Disease.	
30418254	Levetiracetam	Bipolar Disorder	1	0	0	0		Two Manic Episodes Related to a Levetiracetam-Based Treatment in a 34-Year-Old Female Patient: A Case Report.	
30217214	Nivolumab	Encephalitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nivolumab induced encephalopathy in a man with metastatic renal cell cancer: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Great progress has recently been made in the treatment of metastatic renal cell carcinoma, including the introduction of nivolumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor. Despite promising results, this treatment brings a completely new spectrum of adverse events, distinct from those experienced with small-molecule kinase inhibitors. Neurologic immune-related adverse events may be serious and potentially life-threatening complications requiring immediate immunosuppressive therapy. Only a few cases of immune-related encephalitis induced by checkpoint inhibitors have been described and the data regarding the management of this serious adverse event are limited. CASE PRESENTATION: We report the case of a 63-year-old white man with metastatic renal cancer who developed severe chorea-like dyskinesia during nivolumab therapy. The findings on brain magnetic resonance imaging and flow cytometry of cerebrospinal fluid, and the positivity of anti-paraneoplastic antigen Ma2 immunoglobuline G class autoantibodies were consistent with a diagnosis of immune-related encephalitis. High-dose intravenous corticosteroid therapy was started immediately, with no signs of improvement, even when infliximab was added. Our patient refused further hospitalization and was discharged. Three weeks later, he presented with signs of severe urosepsis. Despite intensive treatment, he died 4 days after admission. CONCLUSIONS: The management of less frequent immune-related adverse events has not been fully established and more information is required to provide uniform recommendations. Immune-related encephalitis is a severe and potentially fatal complication requiring immediate hospital admission and extensive immunosuppressive therapy. The examination of cerebrospinal fluid for paraneoplastic antibodies, such as anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and anti-Ma2 antibodies, in order to distinguish autoimmune etiology from other possible causes is essential and highly recommended.
30205307	Gabapentin	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Impact of psychiatric medication co-exposure on Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome severity.	BACKGROUND: Among opioid-exposed infants, psychiatric medication co-exposure is common. Our objective was to compare Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS) outcomes based on individual psychiatric medication co-exposures. METHODS: A retrospective study of 744 opioid-exposed mother-infant dyads from a single institution was performed. Mothers on pharmacotherapy with methadone or buprenorphine at delivery were included. Data were collected on maternal demographics, psychiatric medication use, and NAS outcomes, including any medication treatment, adjunctive medication treatment, length of hospital stay (LOS), and opioid treatment days. The extent to which individual psychiatric medication and polypharmacy exposure were associated with NAS outcomes was assessed using multivariable regression. RESULTS: Fifty-four percent of the mothers were on >/=1 psychiatric medication, with 32% on >/=2 or psychiatric medications (polypharmacy group). In adjusted models, polypharmacy exposure was associated with longer LOS (beta = 4.31 days, 95% CI 2.55-6.06) and opioid treatment days (beta = 3.98 days, 95% CI 2.24-5.72) and more treatment with adjunctive medication for NAS (aOR = 2.49, 95% CI 1.57-3.95). Benzodiazepines were associated with longer LOS (beta = 4.94, 95% CI 2.86-7.03) and opioid treatment days (beta = 4.86, 95% CI 2.61-6.75), and more adjunctive medication treatment (aOR = 2.57, 95% CI 1.49-4.42). Gabapentin was associated with longer LOS (beta = 2.79, 95% CI 0.54-5.03), more NAS medication treatment (aOR = 2.96, 95% CI 1.18-7.42) including more adjunctive medications (aOR = 1.92, 95% CI 1.05-3.53). CONCLUSION: For infants of mothers with OUD who are also on concurrent psychiatric medications, polypharmacy was associated with worse NAS severity. When medically indicated, limiting use of multiple psychiatric medications, particularly benzodiazepines and gabapentin, during pregnancy should be considered to improve NAS outcomes.
30764790	Zoledronic Acid	Orbital Pseudotumor	1	1	1	1	1.0	Bisphosphonate-induced orbital inflammation in a patient on chronic immunosuppressive therapy.	BACKGROUND: To report a case of orbital inflammation after bisphosphonate infusion in a patient who was already receiving immunosuppressive therapy. CASE PRESENTATION: A 56-year-old woman presented to the ophthalmology clinic with acute onset of right eye pain 24 h after receiving her first Zolendronic acid infusion. She has a past medical history of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, Sjogren's syndrome, and systemic lupus erythematosus that have been controlled with immunosuppressive therapy for three years. Clinical ophthalmic exam and MRI studies were significant for right orbital inflammation. The patient was started on oral prednisone with rapid resolution of symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first case report of a patient receiving chronic immunosuppressive therapy to develop orbital inflammation after Zoledronic acid infusion. In addition, it demonstrates that corticosteroids can be an effective first line therapy in treating orbital inflammation in similar patients. Physicians should be aware of this rare but serious potential side effect of bisphosphonates, and have bisphosphonate-related orbital inflammation on their differential for proper initiation of treatment.
30470874	Cladribine	Heart Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cladribine in the remission induction of adult acute myeloid leukemia: where do we stand?	The combination of cytarabine and an anthracycline has been the standard of care for the induction of remission in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The response to treatment and survival of adult patients with AML are still variable and depend on multiple factors. Therefore, there have been many efforts to improve the response to treatment and survival rates by either increasing the cytarabine dose or adding a third agent to the standard induction chemotherapy regimen. Unfortunately, attempts to improve response and survival have been mostly unsuccessful. Recent clinical trials and retrospective studies explored the addition of cladribine to standard induction chemotherapy for AML. Some of these studies showed higher rates of complete remission, and one showed improved survival. In this review, we will discuss the antileukemic properties of cladribine and summarize the recent clinical data regarding its incorporation into the induction therapy for adult AML.
30413837	Everolimus	Anorexia	0	0	0	0		Phase 1 study of everolimus and low-dose oral cyclophosphamide in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.	mTOR inhibitors are frequently used in the treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC). mTOR regulates cell growth, proliferation, angiogenesis, and survival, and additionally plays an important role in immune regulation. Since mTOR inhibitors were shown to benefit immunosuppressive regulatory T-cell (Treg) expansion, this might suppress antitumor immune responses. Metronomic cyclophosphamide (CTX) was shown to selectively deplete Tregs. This study was, therefore, designed to determine the optimal dosage and schedule of CTX when combined with everolimus to prevent this potentially detrimental Treg expansion. In this national multi-center phase I study, patients with mRCC progressive on first line anti-angiogenic therapy received 10 mg everolimus once daily and were enrolled into cohorts with different CTX dosages and schedules. Besides immune monitoring, adverse events and survival data were monitored. 40 patients, 39 evaluable, were treated with different doses and schedules of CTX. Combined with 10 mg everolimus once daily, the optimal Treg depleting dose and schedule of CTX was 50 mg CTX once daily. 23 (59%) patients experienced one or more treatment-related >/= grade 3 toxicity, mostly fatigue, laboratory abnormalities and pneumonitis. The majority of the patients achieved stable disease, two patients a partial response. Median PFS of all cohorts was 3.5 months. In conclusion, the optimal Treg depleting dose and schedule of CTX, when combined with everolimus, is 50 mg once daily. This combination leads to acceptable adverse events in comparison with everolimus alone. Currently, the here selected combination is being evaluated in a phase II clinical trial. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01462214.
30240910	Glutamic Acid	Necrosis	1	0	0	0		Calpain2 but not calpain1 mediated by calpastatin following glutamate-induced regulated necrosis in rat retinal neurons.	The purpose of this study is to investigate whether calpastatin (CAST) plays an important role in the regulated necrosis (RN) in rat retinal neurons under an excessive glutamate condition and furthermore to investigate whether this process is regulated by calapin1 and calpain2. In the present study, glutamate triggered CAST inhibition, calpain2 activation and retinal neuronal RN after injury. The application of CAST active peptide could provide protective effects against activated calpain2 mediated RN. However, the calpain1 activity was not changed in these processes. Finally, in vivo studies further confirmed the role of the CAST-calpain2 pathway in cellular RN in the rat retinal ganglion cell layer and inner nuclear layer after glutamate excitation. In addition, flash electroretinogram results provided evidence that the impaired visual function induced by glutamate could recover after CAST peptide treatment. This research indicated that excessive glutamate may lead to CAST inhibition and activated calpain2, but not calpain1 activation, resulting in RN.
30121852	Carmustine	Lung Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Radiologic evaluation of pulmonary injury following carmustine- and cyclophosphamide-based preparative regimen for autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in children.	BACKGROUND: Toxicity of carmustine and cyclophosphamide can cause pulmonary injury after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the radiologic findings of pulmonary injuries following carmustine- and cyclophosphamide-based preparative regimens in children. MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 2010 to 2014, 35 children received carmustine- and cyclophosphamide-based preparative regimens. Fourteen of 35 children presented with symptoms and radiologic abnormalities. Eight of 14 children had no evidence of infection, cardiogenic edema, or other explainable causes. We retrospectively analyzed their chest radiographs and CT scans for ground-glass opacity, consolidation, septal thickening and pleural effusion. RESULTS: Major chest radiographic findings were bilateral diffuse ground-glass opacity (n=8) and septal thickening (n=7). CT findings were multifocal patchy (n=4) or inhomogeneously diffuse (n=4) ground-glass opacity, multifocal consolidations (n=7) and septal thickening (n=7). All of these lesions at CT were bilateral, but showed lower lobe predominance in 88, 100, and 63%, respectively. There was no central/peripheral or anterior/posterior predilection. Six children had small pleural effusions, which were bilateral in five children. CONCLUSION: Bilateral ground-glass opacity with or without consolidation, septal thickening and pleural effusion were common radiologic findings in pulmonary injury following carmustine- and cyclophosphamide-based preparative regimens.
29706490	Ciprofloxacin	Thrombophlebitis	1	0	0	0		Immediate Superficial Venous Thrombophlebitis Associated with Intravenous Administration of Ciprofloxacin.	
29268959	Danazol	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	1	0	0		Danazol as First-Line Therapy for Myelodysplastic Syndrome.	BACKGROUND: Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) represents the only option with a potential cure rate of 30% to 50% in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS); however, < 5% of patients are optimal candidates for this management. Therapeutic options are limited in patients unsuitable for ASCT. Evidence that androgens might be beneficial in MDS is controversial. We aimed to document the clinical outcomes of patients diagnosed with MDS treated with danazol as first-line therapy. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients diagnosed in our center with MDS according to the World Health Organization 2008 criteria and treated with danazol between 2005 and 2015. Response was defined according to international working group criteria. RESULTS: We included 42 patients treated exclusively with danazol. Median dose was 400 mg/d (range, 100-600 mg/d). Median follow-up was 12 (range, 3-76) months. Twenty-four of these patients (60%) achieved clinical response. Median overall survival was 24 months (95% confidence interval, 5.1-42). Responders were older than nonresponders (P = .025) and had higher baseline hemoglobin concentration (P = .009). No patients discontinued danazol because of toxicity. Fifteen patients died (35.7%) and 5 progressed to acute myeloid leukemia. CONCLUSION: Danazol as first-line therapy is an acceptable treatment option with low side effects for patients with MDS who cannot receive ASCT.
28483074	Sertraline	Neutropenia	1	0	0	0		Neutropenia associated with quetiapine and sertraline: A case report and review of literature.	
30384407	Uranium	Adenocarcinoma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Histopathologic Analysis of Lung Cancer Incidence Associated with Radon Exposure among Ontario Uranium Miners.	Although radon is a well-established contributor to lung cancer mortality among uranium miners, the effects of radon decay products on different histopathologies of lung carcinoma are not well established. Using a retrospective cohort design, this study aims to examine the risks of lung cancer by histological subtypes associated with exposure to radon decay products among the Ontario Uranium Miners cohort. Cases were stratified by histological groups, and associated risks were estimated for cumulative radon exposure after adjustment for attained age and calendar period. Between 1969 and 2005, 1274 incident cases of primary lung cancer were identified. Of these, 1256 diagnoses (99%) contained information on histology. Squamous cell carcinoma was most common (31%), followed by adenocarcinoma (20%), large cells (18%), small cell lung carcinoma (14%), and other or unspecified cell types (17%). Of the histological sub-groups, small cell lung carcinoma had the strongest association with cumulative radon exposure; compared to the reference group (<1 cumulative working level months (WLM)), the highest exposure category (>60 cumulative WLM) had a relative risk (RR) of 2.76 (95% CI: 1.67(-)4.57). Adenocarcinoma had the lowest risk and was not significantly associated with exposure to radon decay products (RR = 1.49, 95% CI: 0.96(-)2.31). An increasing, linear trend in relative risk was noted with increasing cumulative WLM across small cell, squamous cell, and large cell lung carcinomas (P(trend) < 0.05). Similarly, the excess relative risk (ERR) per WLM was highest for small cell lung carcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.15, p < 0.01), followed by squamous cell carcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.12, p < 0.01). Non-statistically significant excess risk was observed for adenocarcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.004, p = 0.07). Our analysis of the Ontario Uranium Miners cohort data shows differences in the magnitude of the risks across four histological subtypes of lung carcinoma; the strongest association was noted for small cell lung carcinoma, followed by squamous cell, large cell, and lastly adenocarcinoma, which showed no significant associations with exposure to radon decay products.
30384407	Uranium	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell	1	1	0	0	0.0	Histopathologic Analysis of Lung Cancer Incidence Associated with Radon Exposure among Ontario Uranium Miners.	Although radon is a well-established contributor to lung cancer mortality among uranium miners, the effects of radon decay products on different histopathologies of lung carcinoma are not well established. Using a retrospective cohort design, this study aims to examine the risks of lung cancer by histological subtypes associated with exposure to radon decay products among the Ontario Uranium Miners cohort. Cases were stratified by histological groups, and associated risks were estimated for cumulative radon exposure after adjustment for attained age and calendar period. Between 1969 and 2005, 1274 incident cases of primary lung cancer were identified. Of these, 1256 diagnoses (99%) contained information on histology. Squamous cell carcinoma was most common (31%), followed by adenocarcinoma (20%), large cells (18%), small cell lung carcinoma (14%), and other or unspecified cell types (17%). Of the histological sub-groups, small cell lung carcinoma had the strongest association with cumulative radon exposure; compared to the reference group (<1 cumulative working level months (WLM)), the highest exposure category (>60 cumulative WLM) had a relative risk (RR) of 2.76 (95% CI: 1.67(-)4.57). Adenocarcinoma had the lowest risk and was not significantly associated with exposure to radon decay products (RR = 1.49, 95% CI: 0.96(-)2.31). An increasing, linear trend in relative risk was noted with increasing cumulative WLM across small cell, squamous cell, and large cell lung carcinomas (P(trend) < 0.05). Similarly, the excess relative risk (ERR) per WLM was highest for small cell lung carcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.15, p < 0.01), followed by squamous cell carcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.12, p < 0.01). Non-statistically significant excess risk was observed for adenocarcinoma (ERR/WLM = 0.004, p = 0.07). Our analysis of the Ontario Uranium Miners cohort data shows differences in the magnitude of the risks across four histological subtypes of lung carcinoma; the strongest association was noted for small cell lung carcinoma, followed by squamous cell, large cell, and lastly adenocarcinoma, which showed no significant associations with exposure to radon decay products.
30355723	Rivaroxaban	Splenic Rupture	1	1	0	0	1.0	Spontaneous splenic rupture due to rivaroxaban.	In conjunction with BMJ Case Reports, DTB will feature occasional drug-related cases that are likely to be of interest to readers. These will include cases that involve recently marketed drugs for which there is limited knowledge of adverse effects and cases that highlight unusual reactions to drugs that have been marketed for several years.
29914537	Ipilimumab	Thyroid Crisis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Combination therapy of ipilimumab and nivolumab induced thyroid storm in a patient with Hashimoto's disease and diabetes mellitus: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors have widely been used for the management of advanced melanoma. However, high-grade immune-related adverse events can occur, particularly with combination immunotherapy. We report a case of a patient with melanoma who developed thyroid storm following treatment with ipilimumab and nivolumab. CASE PRESENTATION: An 85-year-old Japanese man with a history of malignant melanoma presented to our department with severe thyrotoxicosis and poor blood glucose control. He was already being treated for Hashimoto's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus before the treatment for the melanoma. During admission, laboratory investigations revealed the following thyroid functions: thyroid-stimulating hormone below sensitivity, free triiodothyronine 31.7 pg/ml, and thyroglobulin 48,000 IU/ml. Thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody was negative, and a (99m)Tc-labeled thyroid scan revealed a markedly decreased uptake. He was treated with beta-blocker, orally administered potassium iodine, a relatively low dose of prednisolone, and insulin injection therapy to control his blood glucose, resulting in an improvement in thyroid function and his symptoms. CONCLUSION: It might be important to be aware of the possibility of thyroid storm induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors.
29914537	Nivolumab	Thyroid Crisis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Combination therapy of ipilimumab and nivolumab induced thyroid storm in a patient with Hashimoto's disease and diabetes mellitus: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors have widely been used for the management of advanced melanoma. However, high-grade immune-related adverse events can occur, particularly with combination immunotherapy. We report a case of a patient with melanoma who developed thyroid storm following treatment with ipilimumab and nivolumab. CASE PRESENTATION: An 85-year-old Japanese man with a history of malignant melanoma presented to our department with severe thyrotoxicosis and poor blood glucose control. He was already being treated for Hashimoto's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus before the treatment for the melanoma. During admission, laboratory investigations revealed the following thyroid functions: thyroid-stimulating hormone below sensitivity, free triiodothyronine 31.7 pg/ml, and thyroglobulin 48,000 IU/ml. Thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody was negative, and a (99m)Tc-labeled thyroid scan revealed a markedly decreased uptake. He was treated with beta-blocker, orally administered potassium iodine, a relatively low dose of prednisolone, and insulin injection therapy to control his blood glucose, resulting in an improvement in thyroid function and his symptoms. CONCLUSION: It might be important to be aware of the possibility of thyroid storm induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors.
29723164	Sofosbuvir	Diabetes Mellitus	1	0	0	0		Diabetes in a Hepatitis C and HIV-Coinfected Patient Treated With the Ledipasvir and Sofosbuvir Regimen.	
30786188	Irinotecan	Anemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sacituzumab Govitecan-hziy in Refractory Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.	BACKGROUND: Standard chemotherapy is associated with low response rates and short progression-free survival among patients with pretreated metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy is an antibody-drug conjugate that combines a humanized monoclonal antibody, which targets the human trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (Trop-2), with SN-38, which is conjugated to the antibody by a cleavable linker. Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy enables delivery of high concentrations of SN-38 to tumors. METHODS: We conducted a phase 1/2 single-group, multicenter trial involving patients with advanced epithelial cancers who received sacituzumab govitecan-hziy intravenously on days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxic effects. A total of 108 patients received sacituzumab govitecan-hziy at a dose of 10 mg per kilogram of body weight after receiving at least two previous anticancer therapies for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. The end points included safety; the objective response rate (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1), which was assessed locally; the duration of response; the clinical benefit rate (defined as a complete or partial response or stable disease for at least 6 months); progression-free survival; and overall survival. Post hoc analyses determined the response rate and duration, which were assessed by blinded independent central review. RESULTS: The 108 patients with triple-negative breast cancer had received a median of 3 previous therapies (range, 2 to 10). Four deaths occurred during treatment; 3 patients (2.8%) discontinued treatment because of adverse events. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events (in >/=10% of the patients) included anemia and neutropenia; 10 patients (9.3%) had febrile neutropenia. The response rate (3 complete and 33 partial responses) was 33.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 24.6 to 43.1), and the median duration of response was 7.7 months (95% CI, 4.9 to 10.8); as assessed by independent central review, these values were 34.3% and 9.1 months, respectively. The clinical benefit rate was 45.4%. Median progression-free survival was 5.5 months (95% CI, 4.1 to 6.3), and overall survival was 13.0 months (95% CI, 11.2 to 13.7). CONCLUSIONS: Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy was associated with durable objective responses in patients with heavily pretreated metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. Myelotoxic effects were the main adverse reactions. (Funded by Immunomedics; IMMU-132-01 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01631552.).
30786188	Irinotecan	Neutropenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sacituzumab Govitecan-hziy in Refractory Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.	BACKGROUND: Standard chemotherapy is associated with low response rates and short progression-free survival among patients with pretreated metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy is an antibody-drug conjugate that combines a humanized monoclonal antibody, which targets the human trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (Trop-2), with SN-38, which is conjugated to the antibody by a cleavable linker. Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy enables delivery of high concentrations of SN-38 to tumors. METHODS: We conducted a phase 1/2 single-group, multicenter trial involving patients with advanced epithelial cancers who received sacituzumab govitecan-hziy intravenously on days 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxic effects. A total of 108 patients received sacituzumab govitecan-hziy at a dose of 10 mg per kilogram of body weight after receiving at least two previous anticancer therapies for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. The end points included safety; the objective response rate (according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1), which was assessed locally; the duration of response; the clinical benefit rate (defined as a complete or partial response or stable disease for at least 6 months); progression-free survival; and overall survival. Post hoc analyses determined the response rate and duration, which were assessed by blinded independent central review. RESULTS: The 108 patients with triple-negative breast cancer had received a median of 3 previous therapies (range, 2 to 10). Four deaths occurred during treatment; 3 patients (2.8%) discontinued treatment because of adverse events. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events (in >/=10% of the patients) included anemia and neutropenia; 10 patients (9.3%) had febrile neutropenia. The response rate (3 complete and 33 partial responses) was 33.3% (95% confidence interval [CI], 24.6 to 43.1), and the median duration of response was 7.7 months (95% CI, 4.9 to 10.8); as assessed by independent central review, these values were 34.3% and 9.1 months, respectively. The clinical benefit rate was 45.4%. Median progression-free survival was 5.5 months (95% CI, 4.1 to 6.3), and overall survival was 13.0 months (95% CI, 11.2 to 13.7). CONCLUSIONS: Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy was associated with durable objective responses in patients with heavily pretreated metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. Myelotoxic effects were the main adverse reactions. (Funded by Immunomedics; IMMU-132-01 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01631552.).
30773122	Tramadol	Horse Diseases	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, chondrotoxicity and plasma concentrations of tramadol following intra-articular administration in horses undergoing arthroscopy: preliminary findings.	Intra-articular administration of analgesics is performed to ensure good perioperative pain management avoiding undesirable systemic effects. To evaluate the effect of intra-articular injection of tramadol on postoperative pain after arthroscopy in horses and to determine whether tramadol had a local effect. Before the in vivo study, an in vitro test was performed aiming to evaluate the viability of equine chondrocytes after exposure to various concentrations of tramadol. The concentration identified as most appropriate was used to treat the horses' joints. Twelve horses affected by osteochondrosis were randomly assigned to two groups that were treated intra-articularly at the end of surgery with tramadol (4 mg/mL) and saline, respectively. At predetermined time-points a Composite Pain Scale was applied and blood samples were collected in order to define the extent of tramadol absorption into the systemic circulation. The Mann-Whitney test was used for statistical analysis. Serum of four out of six treated horses revealed traces of tramadol (range 10.6-19.3 ng/mL) sporadically between 0.5 and 4 hours post-treatment, while in the other two horses, no trace of drug was found. Findings suggested that any eventual effect was probably due to local action rather than systemic absorption. The pain scores obtained in tramadol-treated horses were lower between 1 and 6 hours post-administration, than those obtained in the control group, but the differences were not statistically significant. These preliminary results suggest that tramadol, at this concentration, is only mildly beneficial in the pain management of horses after arthroscopy.
30773122	Tramadol	Joint Diseases	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, chondrotoxicity and plasma concentrations of tramadol following intra-articular administration in horses undergoing arthroscopy: preliminary findings.	Intra-articular administration of analgesics is performed to ensure good perioperative pain management avoiding undesirable systemic effects. To evaluate the effect of intra-articular injection of tramadol on postoperative pain after arthroscopy in horses and to determine whether tramadol had a local effect. Before the in vivo study, an in vitro test was performed aiming to evaluate the viability of equine chondrocytes after exposure to various concentrations of tramadol. The concentration identified as most appropriate was used to treat the horses' joints. Twelve horses affected by osteochondrosis were randomly assigned to two groups that were treated intra-articularly at the end of surgery with tramadol (4 mg/mL) and saline, respectively. At predetermined time-points a Composite Pain Scale was applied and blood samples were collected in order to define the extent of tramadol absorption into the systemic circulation. The Mann-Whitney test was used for statistical analysis. Serum of four out of six treated horses revealed traces of tramadol (range 10.6-19.3 ng/mL) sporadically between 0.5 and 4 hours post-treatment, while in the other two horses, no trace of drug was found. Findings suggested that any eventual effect was probably due to local action rather than systemic absorption. The pain scores obtained in tramadol-treated horses were lower between 1 and 6 hours post-administration, than those obtained in the control group, but the differences were not statistically significant. These preliminary results suggest that tramadol, at this concentration, is only mildly beneficial in the pain management of horses after arthroscopy.
30264291	Cisplatin	Cell Transformation, Neoplastic	0	1	0	0		Ellagic acid ameliorates cisplatin toxicity in chemically induced colon carcinogenesis.	Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cisplatin) (CP) is an important chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of several cancers. However, it has several side effects including nephrotoxicity gonadotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, and ototoxicity. In in vitro experiments, antioxidants or reactive oxygen species scavengers have a cytoprotective effect on cells exposed to cisplatin (CP). Ellagic acid (EA) is one such bioactive polyphenol that is abundant in some fruits, nuts, and seeds. Various authors have reported that EA has strong antioxidant and antitumor potential. The present study was, therefore, carried out to explore the protective potential of EA on CP-induced gonadotoxicity and nephrotoxicity in colon tumor-bearing mice. Animals were divided into five groups: Group I: normal control, Group II: DMH treated. After 20 weeks of DMH treatment, the animals were divided into four subgroups, viz., Group III: no treatment, Group IV: EA, Group V: CP, and Group VI: CP + EA. Administration of EA significantly ameliorated the toxicity caused by CP as indicated by improved kidney function tests and reproductive function tests. EA treatment to CP-abused mice also led to a marked reduction in the extent of peroxidative damage to tissue as was evident from the improvement in the histopathological changes in kidney and testis. Blood counts were also improved on administration of EA to CP-treated mice. This article provides the evidence that antioxidant efficacy of EA has beneficial effects on CP-induced nephrotoxicity and gonadotoxicity and contributes to understanding the role of oxidative stress, and suggests several points as part of the mechanism of CP toxicity.
30264291	Cisplatin	Colonic Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Ellagic acid ameliorates cisplatin toxicity in chemically induced colon carcinogenesis.	Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) (cisplatin) (CP) is an important chemotherapeutic agent used in the treatment of several cancers. However, it has several side effects including nephrotoxicity gonadotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, and ototoxicity. In in vitro experiments, antioxidants or reactive oxygen species scavengers have a cytoprotective effect on cells exposed to cisplatin (CP). Ellagic acid (EA) is one such bioactive polyphenol that is abundant in some fruits, nuts, and seeds. Various authors have reported that EA has strong antioxidant and antitumor potential. The present study was, therefore, carried out to explore the protective potential of EA on CP-induced gonadotoxicity and nephrotoxicity in colon tumor-bearing mice. Animals were divided into five groups: Group I: normal control, Group II: DMH treated. After 20 weeks of DMH treatment, the animals were divided into four subgroups, viz., Group III: no treatment, Group IV: EA, Group V: CP, and Group VI: CP + EA. Administration of EA significantly ameliorated the toxicity caused by CP as indicated by improved kidney function tests and reproductive function tests. EA treatment to CP-abused mice also led to a marked reduction in the extent of peroxidative damage to tissue as was evident from the improvement in the histopathological changes in kidney and testis. Blood counts were also improved on administration of EA to CP-treated mice. This article provides the evidence that antioxidant efficacy of EA has beneficial effects on CP-induced nephrotoxicity and gonadotoxicity and contributes to understanding the role of oxidative stress, and suggests several points as part of the mechanism of CP toxicity.
30191480	Vinblastine	Wallerian Degeneration	0	0	0	0		The mitochondrial Nod-like receptor NLRX1 modifies apoptosis through SARM1.	NLRX1, the mitochondrial NOD-like receptor (NLR), modulates apoptosis in response to both intrinsic and extrinsic cues. Insights into the mechanism of how NLRX1 influences apoptosis remain to be determined. Here, we demonstrate that NLRX1 associates with SARM1, a protein with a toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR)-containing domain also found in adaptor proteins downstream of toll-like receptors, such as MyD88. While a direct role of SARM1 in innate immunity is unclear, the protein plays essential roles in Wallerian degeneration (WD), a type of neuronal catabolism occurring following axonal severing or damage. In non-neuronal cells, we found that endogenous SARM1 was equally distributed in the cytosol and the mitochondrial matrix, where association with NLRX1 occurred. In these cells, the apoptotic role of NLRX1 was fully dependent on SARM1, indicating that SARM1 was downstream of NLRX1 in apoptosis regulation. In primary murine neurons, however, Wallerian degeneration induced by vinblastine or NGF deprivation occurred in SARM1- yet NLRX1-independent manner, suggesting that WD requires the cytosolic pool of SARM1 or that NLRX1 levels in neurons are too low to contribute to WD regulation. Together, these results shed new light into the mechanisms through which NLRX1 controls apoptosis and provides evidence of a new link between NLR and TIR-containing proteins.
30173373	Cholesterol	Vascular Calcification	0	0	0	0		Potential therapeutic roles of 10-dehydrogingerdione and/or pentoxifylline against calcium deposition in aortic tissues of high dietary cholesterol-fed rabbits.	The present study aimed to investigate the inhibitory effects of 10-dehydrogingerdione (10-DHGD) and pentoxifylline (PTX) either individually or in combined form on calcium deposition in high cholesterol diet (HCD)-fed rabbits as compared to atorvastatin (ATOR), and to clarify the underlying mechanisms. Three-months-old male New Zealand white rabbits received either normal chow or HCD for 12 weeks. The latter group was subdivided into five groups and concurrently treated either with vehicle (dyslipidemic control), ATOR, 10-DHGD, PTX or combined 10-DHGD and PTX. Blood samples and aortic tissue were collected for biochemical and histological analyses. HCD-fed rabbits displayed dyslipidemia, inflammation, atherosclerotic lesions, and calcium deposition in aortas as compared to normal group. This was associated with up-regulation of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), wingless-type MMTV integration site family 3A (Wnt3a) mRNA levels and osteopontin expression in their aortic tissue, along with higher serum alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin levels. Furthermore, a marked decrease in osteoprotegerin, along with a significant increase in receptor activator of NF-kappaB(RANK) levels, was found in aortic tissue of dyslipidemic rabbits. 10-DHGD and PTX monotherapy significantly modulated the afore-mentioned calcification markers and attenuated aortic calcification to greater extent than ATOR. Combination of 10-DHGD and PTX exerted more anti-calcifying effect than either individual drug. Our findings suggested therapeutic roles of 10-DHGD and PTX against aortic calcium deposition in dyslipidemic rabbits, likely mediated by HDL-raising effect and attenuation of associated inflammation. Combination of 10-DHGD and PTX may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for aortic calcification associated with atherosclerosis.
30073191	Fluoxetine	Autism Spectrum Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	Examining the Reversibility of Long-Term Behavioral Disruptions in Progeny of Maternal SSRI Exposure.	Serotonergic dysregulation is implicated in numerous psychiatric disorders. Serotonin plays widespread trophic roles during neurodevelopment; thus perturbations to this system during development may increase risk for neurodevelopmental disorders. Epidemiological studies have examined association between selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment during pregnancy and increased autism spectrum disorder (ASD) risk in offspring. It is unclear from these studies whether ASD susceptibility is purely related to maternal psychiatric diagnosis, or if treatment poses additional risk. We sought to determine whether maternal SSRI treatment alone or in combination with genetically vulnerable background was sufficient to induce offspring behavior disruptions relevant to ASD. We exposed C57BL/6J or Celf6(+/-) mouse dams to fluoxetine (FLX) during different periods of gestation and lactation and characterized offspring on tasks assessing social communicative interaction and repetitive behavior patterns including sensory sensitivities. We demonstrate robust reductions in pup ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) and alterations in social hierarchy behaviors, as well as perseverative behaviors and tactile hypersensitivity. Celf6 mutant mice demonstrate social communicative deficits and perseverative behaviors, without further interaction with FLX. FLX re-exposure in adulthood ameliorates the tactile hypersensitivity yet exacerbates the dominance phenotype. This suggests acute deficiencies in serotonin levels likely underlie the abnormal responses to sensory stimuli, while the social alterations are instead due to altered development of social circuits. These findings indicate maternal FLX treatment, independent of maternal stress, can induce behavioral disruptions in mammalian offspring, thus contributing to our understanding of the developmental role of the serotonin system and the possible risks to offspring of SSRI treatment during pregnancy.
29700568	Nivolumab	Autoimmune Diseases	0	0	0	0		"Response to ""Immune-mediated cholangitis: is it always nivolumab's fault?""."	
29280043	Paclitaxel	Cardiovascular Abnormalities	1	0	1	1		Cardiac biomarkers for early detection and prediction of trastuzumab and/or lapatinib-induced cardiotoxicity in patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer: a NeoALTTO sub-study (BIG 1-06).	BACKGROUND: Biomarkers of cardiac damages, such as troponin T (TnT) and the amino-terminal fragment of brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), may be useful as early predictors of cardiac dysfunction. The role of these biomarkers in patients receiving lapatinib and/or trastuzumab before anthracyclines is unknown. This study explores TnT and NT-proBNP as predictors of early cardiac toxicity in neoadjuvant breast cancer patients. METHODS: This sub-study of the NEOALTTO trial tested if changes in the levels of TnT and NT-proBNP occurred after 2 weeks of anti-HER2 therapy (lapatinib, trastuzumab or their combination) alone and/or after 18 weeks of anti-HER2 therapy plus weekly paclitaxel. RESULTS: 173 and 172 were tested at all three timepoints for NT-proBNP and TnT, respectively. The incidence of biomarker elevation was overall low at all timepoints for all the three treatment arms. A total of 13 CEs in 11 patients occurred. Biomarker elevations in patients with CEs were very rare; only one patient with subsequent CE had a NT-proBNP elevation at baseline and at week 2. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that TnT and proBNP may not be useful as early predictors of cardiac toxicity in anthracycline-naive patients receiving trastuzumab and/or lapatinib.
28743907	Everolimus	Myocardial Infarction	1	0	0	0		Long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES: A Meta-Analysis.	Several previously published trials comparing Zotarolimus Eluting Stents (ZES) with Sirolimus Eluting Stents (SES), Paclitaxel Eluting Stents (PES) or Everolimus Eluting Stents (EES) at a follow up period of 1 year, were continually being followed up in order to assess the long-term outcomes. In this meta-analysis, we aimed to compare the long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes which were associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES following Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). Risk Ratios (RR) with 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) were generated and the analysis was carried out by the RevMan 5.3 software. In this analysis with a total number of 17,606 participants, ZES and EES were associated with similar adverse outcomes including Stent Thrombosis (ST), myocardial infarction (MI), major adverse cardiac events and repeated revascularization. When ZES were compared with SES and PES during the long-term, MI and definite or probable ST were significantly lower with ZES, with RR: 1.35, 95% CI: 1.17-1.56; P = 0.0001 and RR: 1.91, 95% CI: 1.33-2.75; P = 0.0004 respectively whereas the other adverse outcomes were similarly manifested. Future research should be able to confirm this hypothesis.
28743907	Everolimus	Thrombosis	1	0	0	0		Long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES: A Meta-Analysis.	Several previously published trials comparing Zotarolimus Eluting Stents (ZES) with Sirolimus Eluting Stents (SES), Paclitaxel Eluting Stents (PES) or Everolimus Eluting Stents (EES) at a follow up period of 1 year, were continually being followed up in order to assess the long-term outcomes. In this meta-analysis, we aimed to compare the long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes which were associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES following Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). Risk Ratios (RR) with 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) were generated and the analysis was carried out by the RevMan 5.3 software. In this analysis with a total number of 17,606 participants, ZES and EES were associated with similar adverse outcomes including Stent Thrombosis (ST), myocardial infarction (MI), major adverse cardiac events and repeated revascularization. When ZES were compared with SES and PES during the long-term, MI and definite or probable ST were significantly lower with ZES, with RR: 1.35, 95% CI: 1.17-1.56; P = 0.0001 and RR: 1.91, 95% CI: 1.33-2.75; P = 0.0004 respectively whereas the other adverse outcomes were similarly manifested. Future research should be able to confirm this hypothesis.
28743907	Sirolimus	Myocardial Infarction	1	0	0	0		Long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES: A Meta-Analysis.	Several previously published trials comparing Zotarolimus Eluting Stents (ZES) with Sirolimus Eluting Stents (SES), Paclitaxel Eluting Stents (PES) or Everolimus Eluting Stents (EES) at a follow up period of 1 year, were continually being followed up in order to assess the long-term outcomes. In this meta-analysis, we aimed to compare the long-term (2-5 years) adverse clinical outcomes which were associated with ZES versus SES, PES and EES following Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). Risk Ratios (RR) with 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) were generated and the analysis was carried out by the RevMan 5.3 software. In this analysis with a total number of 17,606 participants, ZES and EES were associated with similar adverse outcomes including Stent Thrombosis (ST), myocardial infarction (MI), major adverse cardiac events and repeated revascularization. When ZES were compared with SES and PES during the long-term, MI and definite or probable ST were significantly lower with ZES, with RR: 1.35, 95% CI: 1.17-1.56; P = 0.0001 and RR: 1.91, 95% CI: 1.33-2.75; P = 0.0004 respectively whereas the other adverse outcomes were similarly manifested. Future research should be able to confirm this hypothesis.
30268042	Dimethyl Fumarate	Neuromyelitis Optica	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe disease exacerbation in a patient with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder during treatment with dimethyl fumarate.	BACKGROUND: Certain disease-modifying drugs for multiple sclerosis are known to be ineffective in treating neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), and can even induce subsequent relapses. CASE PRESENTATION: Here, we report on a patient with NMOSD who was misdiagnosed with multiple sclerosis and experienced severe exacerbations 3 months following initiation of treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The patient developed severe relapse in the form of myelitis extending from the medulla down to the T1 vertebral level. Cord swelling seen as contrast enhancement on magnetic resonance imaging was observed. This swelling resulted in spastic hemiplegia with severe painful dysesthesia. After a diagnosis of NMOSD was confirmed, dimethyl fumarate was discontinued and treatment with azathioprine was initiated. Subsequently, although her neurological status stabilized, residual deficits persisted. CONCLUSION: The case described here suggests that dimethyl fumarate is unsuitable for NMOSD treatment as it may cause disease exacerbations.
30237107	Natalizumab	Melanoma	0	1	0	0		Considerations for using Natalizumab treatment in patients with a history of choroidal melanoma.	Natalizumab is a monoclonal antibody licensed for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). It is known to increase the potential risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). There is current debate in the literature regarding its association with malignant melanoma. Herein, we report a case of a 55-year old lady with RRMS for whom natalizumab therapy was being considered by her neurologist. Her medical history included a choroidal melanoma which had undergone successful treatment. Additionally, in this case study we discuss the issues regarding malignant melanoma risk and recurrence with natalizumab treatment.
30223229	Alemtuzumab	Serum Sickness	1	1	0	0	0.0	Serum sickness (Like Reaction) in a patient treated with alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis: A case report.	"BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody approved for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). The only report of Serum Sickness (SS) in a MS patient occurred during treatment with natalizumab. Non-protein drugs, such as some antibiotics, may induce ""SS-like"" reactions (SSLR), whose clinical and laboratory features may partially overlap with the traditional SS. OBJECTIVE: To report a case of SS/SSLR in a RRMS patient treated with alemtuzumab. CASE REPORT: A 42-year-old-woman with RRMS developed SS/SSLR in the first week after the first alemtuzumab treatment. Concomitant medications included trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole at low dose. Intravenous methylprednisolone therapy led to clinical resolution and normalization of serum inflammatory markers. CONCLUSION: SS/SSLR should be considered in patients treated with alemtuzumab developing delayed fever, rash and arthralgia and differentiated with Infusion Associated Reactions (IARs) and infections."
30146563	Gadolinium DTPA	Acute Coronary Syndrome	1	0	0	0		An Acute Adverse Reaction with ST Elevation Induced by Magnetic Resonance Contrast Media: Kounis Syndrome.	A 78-year-old man with mild coronary arteriosclerosis on coronary CT angiography underwent MRI of the prostate with the administration of Gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA) (gadopentetate dimeglumine). He developed acute coronary syndrome immediately after the intravenous injection of GBCA, and recovered after the administration of nitroglycerine, atropine sulfate, and hydrocortisone. He was discharged on the ninth day of hospitalization without recurrent chest symptoms. This is the second reported case of Kounis syndrome caused by GBCA. Kounis syndrome caused by MR contrast media is rare, but we should recognize that all contrast agents have the potential to cause Kounis syndrome.
30146563	Gadolinium DTPA	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	1	0	0	0		An Acute Adverse Reaction with ST Elevation Induced by Magnetic Resonance Contrast Media: Kounis Syndrome.	A 78-year-old man with mild coronary arteriosclerosis on coronary CT angiography underwent MRI of the prostate with the administration of Gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA) (gadopentetate dimeglumine). He developed acute coronary syndrome immediately after the intravenous injection of GBCA, and recovered after the administration of nitroglycerine, atropine sulfate, and hydrocortisone. He was discharged on the ninth day of hospitalization without recurrent chest symptoms. This is the second reported case of Kounis syndrome caused by GBCA. Kounis syndrome caused by MR contrast media is rare, but we should recognize that all contrast agents have the potential to cause Kounis syndrome.
29976896	Arsenic	Diabetes, Gestational	1	0	0	0		Urinary Inorganic Arsenic Concentration and Gestational Diabetes Mellitus in Pregnant Women from Arica, Chile.	Introduction: The association of total arsenic exposure with impaired glucose tolerance and gestational diabetes has been shown; however, evidence regarding urinary inorganic arsenic in pregnant women is still limited. Our aim was to evaluate the association between urinary inorganic arsenic concentration and gestational diabetes among pregnant women living in Arica, Chile. Methods: Cross-sectional study of pregnant women receiving care at primary health centers in urban Arica. The exposure was urinary inorganic arsenic concentration, while gestational diabetes was the outcome. The association was evaluated using multiple logistic regression models adjusted by age, education level, ethnicity, and pre-pregnancy body mass index. Results: 244 pregnant women were surveyed. The median urinary inorganic arsenic was 14.95 &mu;g/L, and the prevalence of gestational diabetes was 8.6%. After adjusting, we did not find a significant association between gestational diabetes and inorganic arsenic exposure tertiles (Odds ratio (OR) 2.98, 95% CI = 0.87(-)10.18), (OR 1.07, 95% CI = 0.26(-)4.33). Conclusion: This study did not provide evidence on the relationship between urinary inorganic arsenic concentration and gestational diabetes. Further research is needed to elucidate the factors underlying this association.
28964642	Etanercept	Dermatomyositis	1	0	0	0		A case of clinically amyopathic dermatomyositis that developed during anti-TNF-alpha therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.	
28843441	Thiamine	Urticaria	0	0	0	0		Urticaria by thiamine (vitamin B1).	
28784378	Aripiprazole	Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders	0	0	0	0		Reduced insomnia following short-term administration of suvorexant during aripiprazole once-monthly treatment in a patient with schizophrenia.	
28506716	Vemurafenib	Retinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	MEK Retinopathy. Clinical case reports.	CASE REPORTS: Three clinical cases are presented of MEK retinopathy associated with the combination of cobimetinib and vemurafenib characterised by alteration of the retinal pigment epithelium and neurosensory detachment. Two of the cases conserved the vision of the unit, and the third developed a large bilateral neurosensory detachment with final visual acuity of 0.6 for the right eye and 0.1 for the left one. DISCUSSION: The new therapeutic strategies against metastatic cutaneous melanoma condition the appearance of alterations of the pigmentary epithelium of the retina with serous detachments, leading to close monitoring with macular optical coherence tomography.
30516102	Trastuzumab	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Trastuzumab Emtansine for Residual Invasive HER2-Positive Breast Cancer.	BACKGROUND: Patients who have residual invasive breast cancer after receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-targeted therapy have a worse prognosis than those who have no residual cancer. Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1), an antibody-drug conjugate of trastuzumab and the cytotoxic agent emtansine (DM1), a maytansine derivative and microtubule inhibitor, provides benefit in patients with metastatic breast cancer that was previously treated with chemotherapy plus HER2-targeted therapy. METHODS: We conducted a phase 3, open-label trial involving patients with HER2-positive early breast cancer who were found to have residual invasive disease in the breast or axilla at surgery after receiving neoadjuvant therapy containing a taxane (with or without anthracycline) and trastuzumab. Patients were randomly assigned to receive adjuvant T-DM1 or trastuzumab for 14 cycles. The primary end point was invasive disease-free survival (defined as freedom from ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, ipsilateral locoregional invasive breast cancer recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence, or death from any cause). RESULTS: At the interim analysis, among 1486 randomly assigned patients (743 in the T-DM1 group and 743 in the trastuzumab group), invasive disease or death had occurred in 91 patients in the T-DM1 group (12.2%) and 165 patients in the trastuzumab group (22.2%). The estimated percentage of patients who were free of invasive disease at 3 years was 88.3% in the T-DM1 group and 77.0% in the trastuzumab group. Invasive disease-free survival was significantly higher in the T-DM1 group than in the trastuzumab group (hazard ratio for invasive disease or death, 0.50; 95% confidence interval, 0.39 to 0.64; P<0.001). Distant recurrence as the first invasive-disease event occurred in 10.5% of patients in the T-DM1 group and 15.9% of those in the trastuzumab group. The safety data were consistent with the known safety profile of T-DM1, with more adverse events associated with T-DM1 than with trastuzumab alone. CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with HER2-positive early breast cancer who had residual invasive disease after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, the risk of recurrence of invasive breast cancer or death was 50% lower with adjuvant T-DM1 than with trastuzumab alone. (Funded by F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech; KATHERINE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01772472 .).
29414548	Levetiracetam	Dizziness	0	1	0	0		Efficacy and tolerability of perampanel and levetiracetam as first add-on therapy in patients with epilepsy: A retrospective single center study.	Perampanel (PER) is a third generation antiepileptic drug (AED), recently approved as add-on therapy in both focal and generalized seizures. Levetiracetam (LEV) is a second generation AED, widely used in patients with epilepsy because of its favorable safety and efficacy profiles. Perampanel and LEV treatments have been associated with the occurrence of similar adverse events (AEs) (sleepiness, irritability, depression, anxiety, aggressiveness). The aim of the present retrospective single center study was to verify the efficacy and tolerability of PER and LEV used as first add-on therapy in patients with epilepsy affected by secondarily generalized seizures. We collected data from 15 patients treated with PER and 26 patients treated with LEV and followed at our site with follow-up visits at 3, 6, and 12months. This retrospective study documented the comparable efficacy of PER and LEV as first add-on treatments in patients affected by uncontrolled secondarily generalized seizures. However, more patients withdrawn LEV because of AEs compared with PER at the 3- and 12-month follow-up visits. The better tolerability of PER observed in this study could be related to the low therapeutic dose of PER prescribed when it is used as first adjunctive treatment for better controlling secondarily generalized seizures.
29414542	Lamotrigine	Dizziness	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of brivaracetam with concomitant lamotrigine or concomitant topiramate in pooled Phase III randomized, double-blind trials: A post-hoc analysis.	OBJECTIVE: The objective was to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunctive brivaracetam (BRV) with concomitant use of lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM) in patients with uncontrolled focal seizures. METHODS: Data were pooled from three randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III studies (NCT00490035/N01252, NCT00464269/N01253, NCT01261325/N01358) of adults with focal (partial-onset) seizures. Patients taking concomitant levetiracetam were excluded from the efficacy populations, but included in the safety populations. This post-hoc analysis reports data from patients taking BRV in the approved therapeutic range (50-200mg/day) concomitantly with LTG or TPM. RESULTS: The number of patients in each of the three BRV dosage groups was small, particularly for the TPM subgroup. Mean percent reduction over placebo in baseline-adjusted focal seizure frequency/28days for BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day was 8.7, 5.3, and 8.9 in the LTG subgroup (n=220), and 8.4, 21.3, and -4.2 in the TPM subgroup (n=122). The >/=50% responder rate with concomitant LTG or TPM with BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day or placebo was LTG: 28.1%, 36.1%, 34.1%, and 29.1%; and TPM: 14.3%, 44.4%, 25.0%, and 17.5%. There were numerically >/=50%, >/=75%, >/=90%, and 100% responder rates for patients taking BRV >/=50mg/day compared with placebo in both subgroups. In the LTG and TPM safety populations (n=245 versus n=125), treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported with LTG 68.7% versus 68.4%, and TPM 65.6% versus 57.8% (BRV >/=50mg/day versus placebo). Discontinuations due to TEAEs versus placebo were LTG 7.3% versus 6.3% and TPM 8.2% versus 4.7%. The three most frequently reported TEAEs for both subgroups were somnolence, dizziness, and fatigue. Of these, the incidence of fatigue in the LTG population appeared to increase with dose. SIGNIFICANCE: In this post-hoc pooled analysis, BRV administered with concomitant LTG or TPM reduced seizure frequency and was generally well tolerated for BRV doses of 50-200mg/day.
29414542	Lamotrigine	Fatigue	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of brivaracetam with concomitant lamotrigine or concomitant topiramate in pooled Phase III randomized, double-blind trials: A post-hoc analysis.	OBJECTIVE: The objective was to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunctive brivaracetam (BRV) with concomitant use of lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM) in patients with uncontrolled focal seizures. METHODS: Data were pooled from three randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III studies (NCT00490035/N01252, NCT00464269/N01253, NCT01261325/N01358) of adults with focal (partial-onset) seizures. Patients taking concomitant levetiracetam were excluded from the efficacy populations, but included in the safety populations. This post-hoc analysis reports data from patients taking BRV in the approved therapeutic range (50-200mg/day) concomitantly with LTG or TPM. RESULTS: The number of patients in each of the three BRV dosage groups was small, particularly for the TPM subgroup. Mean percent reduction over placebo in baseline-adjusted focal seizure frequency/28days for BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day was 8.7, 5.3, and 8.9 in the LTG subgroup (n=220), and 8.4, 21.3, and -4.2 in the TPM subgroup (n=122). The >/=50% responder rate with concomitant LTG or TPM with BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day or placebo was LTG: 28.1%, 36.1%, 34.1%, and 29.1%; and TPM: 14.3%, 44.4%, 25.0%, and 17.5%. There were numerically >/=50%, >/=75%, >/=90%, and 100% responder rates for patients taking BRV >/=50mg/day compared with placebo in both subgroups. In the LTG and TPM safety populations (n=245 versus n=125), treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported with LTG 68.7% versus 68.4%, and TPM 65.6% versus 57.8% (BRV >/=50mg/day versus placebo). Discontinuations due to TEAEs versus placebo were LTG 7.3% versus 6.3% and TPM 8.2% versus 4.7%. The three most frequently reported TEAEs for both subgroups were somnolence, dizziness, and fatigue. Of these, the incidence of fatigue in the LTG population appeared to increase with dose. SIGNIFICANCE: In this post-hoc pooled analysis, BRV administered with concomitant LTG or TPM reduced seizure frequency and was generally well tolerated for BRV doses of 50-200mg/day.
29414542	Topiramate	Dizziness	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of brivaracetam with concomitant lamotrigine or concomitant topiramate in pooled Phase III randomized, double-blind trials: A post-hoc analysis.	OBJECTIVE: The objective was to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunctive brivaracetam (BRV) with concomitant use of lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM) in patients with uncontrolled focal seizures. METHODS: Data were pooled from three randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III studies (NCT00490035/N01252, NCT00464269/N01253, NCT01261325/N01358) of adults with focal (partial-onset) seizures. Patients taking concomitant levetiracetam were excluded from the efficacy populations, but included in the safety populations. This post-hoc analysis reports data from patients taking BRV in the approved therapeutic range (50-200mg/day) concomitantly with LTG or TPM. RESULTS: The number of patients in each of the three BRV dosage groups was small, particularly for the TPM subgroup. Mean percent reduction over placebo in baseline-adjusted focal seizure frequency/28days for BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day was 8.7, 5.3, and 8.9 in the LTG subgroup (n=220), and 8.4, 21.3, and -4.2 in the TPM subgroup (n=122). The >/=50% responder rate with concomitant LTG or TPM with BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day or placebo was LTG: 28.1%, 36.1%, 34.1%, and 29.1%; and TPM: 14.3%, 44.4%, 25.0%, and 17.5%. There were numerically >/=50%, >/=75%, >/=90%, and 100% responder rates for patients taking BRV >/=50mg/day compared with placebo in both subgroups. In the LTG and TPM safety populations (n=245 versus n=125), treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported with LTG 68.7% versus 68.4%, and TPM 65.6% versus 57.8% (BRV >/=50mg/day versus placebo). Discontinuations due to TEAEs versus placebo were LTG 7.3% versus 6.3% and TPM 8.2% versus 4.7%. The three most frequently reported TEAEs for both subgroups were somnolence, dizziness, and fatigue. Of these, the incidence of fatigue in the LTG population appeared to increase with dose. SIGNIFICANCE: In this post-hoc pooled analysis, BRV administered with concomitant LTG or TPM reduced seizure frequency and was generally well tolerated for BRV doses of 50-200mg/day.
29414542	Topiramate	Fatigue	0	0	0	0		Efficacy, safety, and tolerability of brivaracetam with concomitant lamotrigine or concomitant topiramate in pooled Phase III randomized, double-blind trials: A post-hoc analysis.	OBJECTIVE: The objective was to assess the efficacy and safety of adjunctive brivaracetam (BRV) with concomitant use of lamotrigine (LTG) or topiramate (TPM) in patients with uncontrolled focal seizures. METHODS: Data were pooled from three randomized, placebo-controlled Phase III studies (NCT00490035/N01252, NCT00464269/N01253, NCT01261325/N01358) of adults with focal (partial-onset) seizures. Patients taking concomitant levetiracetam were excluded from the efficacy populations, but included in the safety populations. This post-hoc analysis reports data from patients taking BRV in the approved therapeutic range (50-200mg/day) concomitantly with LTG or TPM. RESULTS: The number of patients in each of the three BRV dosage groups was small, particularly for the TPM subgroup. Mean percent reduction over placebo in baseline-adjusted focal seizure frequency/28days for BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day was 8.7, 5.3, and 8.9 in the LTG subgroup (n=220), and 8.4, 21.3, and -4.2 in the TPM subgroup (n=122). The >/=50% responder rate with concomitant LTG or TPM with BRV 50, 100, and 200mg/day or placebo was LTG: 28.1%, 36.1%, 34.1%, and 29.1%; and TPM: 14.3%, 44.4%, 25.0%, and 17.5%. There were numerically >/=50%, >/=75%, >/=90%, and 100% responder rates for patients taking BRV >/=50mg/day compared with placebo in both subgroups. In the LTG and TPM safety populations (n=245 versus n=125), treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported with LTG 68.7% versus 68.4%, and TPM 65.6% versus 57.8% (BRV >/=50mg/day versus placebo). Discontinuations due to TEAEs versus placebo were LTG 7.3% versus 6.3% and TPM 8.2% versus 4.7%. The three most frequently reported TEAEs for both subgroups were somnolence, dizziness, and fatigue. Of these, the incidence of fatigue in the LTG population appeared to increase with dose. SIGNIFICANCE: In this post-hoc pooled analysis, BRV administered with concomitant LTG or TPM reduced seizure frequency and was generally well tolerated for BRV doses of 50-200mg/day.
29412502	Metformin	Carcinoma, Ovarian Epithelial	1	0	0	0		The role of metformin and statins in the incidence of epithelial ovarian cancer in type 2 diabetes: a cohort and nested case-control study.	OBJECTIVE: To obtain evidence of the effects of metformin and statins on the incidence of ovarian cancer in women with type 2 diabetes (T2D). DESIGN: A retrospective cohort study and nested case-control study. SETTING: The data were obtained from a diabetes database (FinDM) combining information from several nationwide registers. POPULATION: A cohort of 137 643 women over 40 years old and diagnosed with T2D during 1996-2011 in Finland. METHODS: In full cohort analysis Poisson regression was used to estimate the hazard ratios (HR) in relation to ever use of metformin, insulin other oral anti-diabetic medication or statins. In the nested case-control analysis 20 controls were matched to each case of ovarian cancer. Conditional logistic regression was used to estimate HRs in relation to medication use and cumulative use of different medications. The estimates were adjusted for age and duration of T2D. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incidence of ovarian cancer. RESULTS: In all, 303 women were diagnosed with ovarian cancer during the follow up. Compared with other forms of oral anti-diabetic medication, metformin (HR 1.02, 95% CI: 0.72-1.45) was not found to be associated with the incidence of ovarian cancer. Neither was there evidence for statins to affect the incidence (HR 0.99, 95% CI: 0.78-1.25). In nested case-control analysis the results were essentially similar. CONCLUSIONS: No evidence of an association between the use of metformin or statins and the incidence of ovarian cancer in women with T2D was found. TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: No evidence found for metformin or statins reducing the incidence of ovarian cancer.
29284686	Temazepam	Sleep Apnea, Obstructive	1	1	0	0	0.0	Role of common hypnotics on the phenotypic causes of obstructive sleep apnoea: paradoxical effects of zolpidem.	Hypnotics are contraindicated in obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) because of concerns of pharyngeal muscle relaxation and delayed arousal worsening hypoxaemia. However, human data are lacking. This study aimed to determine the effects of three common hypnotics on the respiratory arousal threshold, genioglossus muscle responsiveness and upper airway collapsibility during sleep.21 individuals with and without OSA (18-65 years) completed 84 detailed sleep studies after receiving temazepam (10 mg), zolpidem (10 mg), zopiclone (7.5 mg) and placebo on four occasions in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial (ACTRN12612001004853).The arousal threshold increased with zolpidem and zopiclone versus placebo (mean+/-sd -18.3+/-10 and -19.1+/-9 versus -14.6+/-7 cmH(2)O; p=0.02 and p<0.001) but not with temazepam (-16.8+/-9 cmH(2)O; p=0.17). Genioglossus muscle activity during stable non-REM sleep and responsiveness during airway narrowing was not different with temazepam and zopiclone versus placebo but, paradoxically, zolpidem increased median muscle responsiveness three-fold during airway narrowing (median -0.15 (interquartile range -1.01 to -0.04) versus -0.05 (-0.29 to -0.03)% maximum EMG per cmH(2)O epiglottic pressure; p=0.03). The upper airway critical closing pressure did not change with any of the hypnotics.These doses of common hypnotics have differential effects on the respiratory arousal threshold but do not reduce upper airway muscle activity or alter airway collapsibility during sleep. Rather, muscle activity increases during airway narrowing with zolpidem.
29284686	Zolpidem	Sleep Apnea, Obstructive	1	1	0	0	0.0	Role of common hypnotics on the phenotypic causes of obstructive sleep apnoea: paradoxical effects of zolpidem.	Hypnotics are contraindicated in obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) because of concerns of pharyngeal muscle relaxation and delayed arousal worsening hypoxaemia. However, human data are lacking. This study aimed to determine the effects of three common hypnotics on the respiratory arousal threshold, genioglossus muscle responsiveness and upper airway collapsibility during sleep.21 individuals with and without OSA (18-65 years) completed 84 detailed sleep studies after receiving temazepam (10 mg), zolpidem (10 mg), zopiclone (7.5 mg) and placebo on four occasions in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial (ACTRN12612001004853).The arousal threshold increased with zolpidem and zopiclone versus placebo (mean+/-sd -18.3+/-10 and -19.1+/-9 versus -14.6+/-7 cmH(2)O; p=0.02 and p<0.001) but not with temazepam (-16.8+/-9 cmH(2)O; p=0.17). Genioglossus muscle activity during stable non-REM sleep and responsiveness during airway narrowing was not different with temazepam and zopiclone versus placebo but, paradoxically, zolpidem increased median muscle responsiveness three-fold during airway narrowing (median -0.15 (interquartile range -1.01 to -0.04) versus -0.05 (-0.29 to -0.03)% maximum EMG per cmH(2)O epiglottic pressure; p=0.03). The upper airway critical closing pressure did not change with any of the hypnotics.These doses of common hypnotics have differential effects on the respiratory arousal threshold but do not reduce upper airway muscle activity or alter airway collapsibility during sleep. Rather, muscle activity increases during airway narrowing with zolpidem.
29260270	Hyaluronic Acid	Thrombosis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Vascular Complications After Chin Augmentation Using Hyaluronic Acid.	Vascular complications after hyaluronic acid (HA) filling of the chin have rarely been reported. In this report, two cases of vascular occlusion after HA augmentation of the mentum are presented. The first case involved local skin necrosis that resulted from a massive microcirculatory embolism and/or external compression of the chin skin microvasculature. The second case involved vascular compromise in the tongue that resulted from HA injection in the chin. The diagnosis was established on the basis of interventional angiography findings. Concerning the pathogenesis, we hypothesized that the filler embolus flowed into the branches of the deep lingual artery through the rich vascular anastomoses among the submental, sublingual, and deep lingual arteries, after being accidentally injected into the submental artery (or its branches). Level of Evidence V This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .
30513908	Lithium Chloride	Alzheimer Disease	0	0	0	0		Administration of Momordica charantia Enhances the Neuroprotection and Reduces the Side Effects of LiCl in the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.	Recently, the use of natural food supplements to reduce the side effects of chemical compounds used for the treatment of various diseases has become popular. Lithium chloride (LiCl) has some protective effects in neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its toxic effects on various systems and some relevant interactions with other drugs limit its broader use in clinical practice. In this study, we investigated the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological functions of LiCl combined with Momordica charantia (MC) in the treatment of AD. The in vitro results show that the order of the neuroprotective effect is MC5, MC3, MC2, and MC5523 under hyperglycemia or tau hyperphosphorylation. Therefore, MC5523 (80 mg/kg; oral gavage) and/or LiCl (141.3 mg/kg; intraperitoneal injection) were applied to ovariectomized (OVX) 3xTg-AD female and C57BL/6J (B6) male mice that received intracerebroventricular injections of streptozotocin (icv-STZ, 3 mg/kg) for 28 days. We found that the combined treatment not only increased the survival rate by reducing hepatotoxicity but also increased neuroprotection associated with anti-gliosis in the icv-STZ OVX 3xTg-AD mice. Furthermore, the cotreatment with MC5523 and LiCl prevented memory deficits associated with reduced neuronal loss, gliosis, oligomeric Abeta level, and tau hyperphosphorylation and increased the expression levels of synaptic-related protein and pS9-GSK3beta (inactive form) in the icv-STZ B6 mice. Therefore, MC5523 combined with LiCl could be a potential strategy for the treatment of AD.
30025127	Acetylcysteine	Dry Eye Syndromes	1	0	0	0		Effects of Topical Mucolytic Agents on the Tears and Ocular Surface: A Plausible Animal Model of Mucin-Deficient Dry Eye.	PURPOSE: A topical mucolytic agent, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), has been used to create an animal model without the intestinal mucus layer. In this study, we investigated the effects of topical NAC on the tears and ocular surface. METHODS: NAC-treated models were established by topically administering 10% NAC four times daily for 5 days in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Clinical parameters and the expression of mucin proteins and genes were evaluated. Alterations in the conjunctival epithelium and goblet cells were observed. RESULTS: The NAC group showed significant decreases in tear secretion, corneal wetting ability, tear MUC5AC concentration, and conjunctival goblet cell numbers as compared with the control group (all P < 0.01). In addition, significant increases in corneal fluorescein score and rose bengal scores were observed in the NAC group versus in the control group (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and scanning electron microscopy clearly showed damage in the epithelial cell layer and microvilli of the NAC group. Although there was no significant difference in MUC16 gene expression, the MUC16 concentration of the tear film and ocular surface tissue was significantly increased in the NAC group versus in the control group (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). Five-day treatment with 3% diquafosol had minimal therapeutic effect in NAC-treated rat eyes. CONCLUSIONS: Topical administration of 10% NAC induced ocular surface damage and tear film instability by prompting MUC16 disruption and release from the ocular surface. This animal model could be used to study dry eye disease, especially the mucin-deficiency subtype.
29882135	Serum Albumin, Bovine	Hypersensitivity, Delayed	0	0	0	0		Methylated Bovine Serum Albumin (mBSA)-Induced Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity in Mice.	Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH or type IV hypersensitivity) is defined by T-cell-driven inflammation which occurs only after secondary insult with antigen. Interestingly both Th1, the classical, and Th17, the more recently discovered, proinflammatory lineages have been implicated in disease progression. The duality of DTH makes it an ideal model system for understanding T-cell differentiation, memory cell formation, and the direct effect of treatment regimens on T-cell activation/proliferation. To this end, a protocol for induction and assessment of DTH which triggers memory T-cell (Th1 and Th17) response in the footpad of mice using methylated bovine serum albumin (mBSA) is described.
28712438	Topiramate	Granuloma Annulare	1	0	0	0		Granuloma Annulare Possibly Secondary to Oral Treatment With Topiramate.	
28712438	Topiramate	Hand Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Granuloma Annulare Possibly Secondary to Oral Treatment With Topiramate.	
30543736	Nivolumab	Adrenal Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	[A Case of Nivolumab-Induced Isolated Adrenocorticotropic Hormone Deficiency Presenting Dyspnea].	A 66-year-old man had undergone multiple treatments for metastatic renal cell carcinoma, including 11 cycles of nivolumab, which was discontinued because of disease progression. About three weeks after discontinuing nivolumab, he reported suffering from worsening of dyspnea. Pulse oximetry showed no desaturation. His cardiovascular and pulmonary functions were normal. His dyspnea slowly worsened with no underlying diagnosis. Two months after symptoms developed, he was diagnosed with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency. His dyspnea disappeared soon after receiving hydrocortisone. Nivolumab-induced isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency may not present with typical symptoms, and can occur even after discontinuing nivolumab. Cortisol levels should be routinely monitored in patients who receive nivolumab.
30543736	Nivolumab	Dyspnea	1	1	0	0	0.0	[A Case of Nivolumab-Induced Isolated Adrenocorticotropic Hormone Deficiency Presenting Dyspnea].	A 66-year-old man had undergone multiple treatments for metastatic renal cell carcinoma, including 11 cycles of nivolumab, which was discontinued because of disease progression. About three weeks after discontinuing nivolumab, he reported suffering from worsening of dyspnea. Pulse oximetry showed no desaturation. His cardiovascular and pulmonary functions were normal. His dyspnea slowly worsened with no underlying diagnosis. Two months after symptoms developed, he was diagnosed with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency. His dyspnea disappeared soon after receiving hydrocortisone. Nivolumab-induced isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency may not present with typical symptoms, and can occur even after discontinuing nivolumab. Cortisol levels should be routinely monitored in patients who receive nivolumab.
30529707	Hydrochlorothiazide	Skin Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		The expanding saga of hydrochlorothiazide and skin cancer.	
30468063	Chloroquine	Ventricular Dysfunction, Left	1	0	0	0		Left ventricular rotational abnormalities in chloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy (from the MAGYAR-Path Study).	
30405050	Pepsin A	Intestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG Protects the Epithelial Barrier of Wistar Rats from the Pepsin-Trypsin-Digested Gliadin (PTG)-Induced Enteropathy.	Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic immune-mediated disorder, characterized by enhanced paracellular permeability across the intestinal epithelium. The complex system of intercellular junctions, including tight junctions (TJs) and adherens junctions (AJs), seals together the epithelial cells to form a continuous layer. The improvements in barrier integrity have been related to modifications in intercellular junction protein expression. Polyamines (spermidine, spermine, and putrescine) actively participate in the modulation of the AJ expression. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that also probiotics can promote the integrity and the function of the intestinal barrier. On these bases, the present work investigated the protective effects exerted by Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (L.GG) against the pepsin-trypsin-digested gliadin (PTG)-induced enteropathy in jejunal tissue samples of Wistar rats. In particular, the probiotic effects have been evaluated on the intestinal mucosal architecture, polyamine metabolism and intercellular junction protein expression (ZO-1, Occludin, Claudin-1, beta-catenin and E-cadherin). The results from this study indicate that L.GG protects the intestinal mucosa of rats from PTG-induced damage, by preventing the reduction of the expression of the intercellular junction proteins. Consequently, a role for L.GG in the therapeutic management of the gluten-related disorders in humans could be hypothesized.
30405050	Trypsin	Intestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG Protects the Epithelial Barrier of Wistar Rats from the Pepsin-Trypsin-Digested Gliadin (PTG)-Induced Enteropathy.	Celiac disease (CD) is a chronic immune-mediated disorder, characterized by enhanced paracellular permeability across the intestinal epithelium. The complex system of intercellular junctions, including tight junctions (TJs) and adherens junctions (AJs), seals together the epithelial cells to form a continuous layer. The improvements in barrier integrity have been related to modifications in intercellular junction protein expression. Polyamines (spermidine, spermine, and putrescine) actively participate in the modulation of the AJ expression. Both in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that also probiotics can promote the integrity and the function of the intestinal barrier. On these bases, the present work investigated the protective effects exerted by Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (L.GG) against the pepsin-trypsin-digested gliadin (PTG)-induced enteropathy in jejunal tissue samples of Wistar rats. In particular, the probiotic effects have been evaluated on the intestinal mucosal architecture, polyamine metabolism and intercellular junction protein expression (ZO-1, Occludin, Claudin-1, beta-catenin and E-cadherin). The results from this study indicate that L.GG protects the intestinal mucosa of rats from PTG-induced damage, by preventing the reduction of the expression of the intercellular junction proteins. Consequently, a role for L.GG in the therapeutic management of the gluten-related disorders in humans could be hypothesized.
30051965	Pectins	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	1	0	0	0		Galactomannan More than Pectin Exacerbates Liver Injury in Mice Fed with High-Fat, High-Cholesterol Diet.	SCOPE: Galactomannan and citrus pectin are considered 'super fibers' known for altering gut microbiota composition and improving glucose and lipid metabolism. The study aims to investigate the fiber's effect on a nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) model. METHODS AND RESULTS: Two feeding experiments are carried out using groups of 7-8 week-old male C57BL/6J mice. The diets used are based on a high cholesterol/cholate diet (HCD), such as a nutritional NASH model. Mice are fed a diet with or without 15% fiber-citrus pectin (HCD-CP) or galactomannan (HCD-G) together with the HCD (first experiment), which commenced 3 weeks prior to the HCD (second experiment). Liver damage is evaluated by histological and biochemical parameters. Galactomannan leads to lesser weight gain and improved glucose tolerance, but increased liver damage. This is shown by elevated levels of liver enzymes compared to that with HCD alone. Fibers induce higher steatosis, as evaluated by liver histology. This intriguing result is linked to various changes in the gut microbiota, such as elevated Proteobacteria levels in the galactomannan group, which are correlated with disturbed metabolism and dysbiosis. CONCLUSIONS: In a NASH mouse model, galactomannan increases liver damage but improves glucose metabolism. Changes in the microbiota composition may answer this enigmatic observation.
29966888	Olanzapine	Edema	1	0	0	0		Olanzapine associated palpebral edema: An uncommon adverse effect of a commonly prescribed drug.	
29957528	Opium	Bipolar Disorder	1	0	0	0		Use of opium containing herbal drug and associated mania.	
29778846	Lacosamide	Dizziness	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and tolerability of treatment with lacosamide: Postmarketing experience from the Middle East region.	PURPOSE: Lacosamide (LCM) was recently introduced in the Middle East. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of LCM in patients with focal onset seizures and determine if our results are comparable with those derived from Western countries. METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis from two medical centers on consecutive patients diagnosed as having focal onset seizures and treated with add-on LCM. The primary efficacy variables were the 50% responder and seizure-free rates, and the secondary outcome variables included the percentages of patients who achieved seizure remission during the last 6-month follow-up period and the percentages of discontinuation due to lack of efficacy or tolerability. RESULTS: One hundred four patients with a mean age of 30.9 years and experiencing a mean of 9.4 seizures per month during baseline were included. The 50% responder rates were 69% and 70% at 6- and 24-month follow-ups, respectively. Patients concomitantly treated with a sodium channel blocker were less likely to achieve seizure remission during the last 6-month follow-up period while the early introduction of LCM resulted in a significantly higher likelihood of achieving such a remission. Eighty-eight percent of patients were still maintained on LCM at the last follow-up, and the most common adverse events consisted of dizziness and somnolence, double vision, and nausea/vomiting. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show similar efficacy and tolerability to those reported from Western countries. Our results also substantiate the early introduction of LCM and support the dose reduction of baseline AED especially that of sodium channel blockers to minimize adverse events.
29572389	Nicotine	Diabetic Nephropathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nicotine enhances mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin production in high glucose milieu via activation of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a major complication of diabetes mellitus. Clinic reports indicate cigarette smoking is an independent risk factor for chronic kidney disease including DN; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not clear. Recent studies have demonstrated that nicotine, one of the active compounds in cigarette smoke, contributes to the pathogenesis of the cigarette smoking-accelerated chronic kidney disease. One of the characteristics of DN is the expansion of mesangium, a precursor of glomerular sclerosis. In the present study, we examined the involvement of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in nicotine-mediated mesangial cell growth in high glucose milieu. Primary human renal mesangial cells were treated with nicotine in the presence of normal (5 mM) or high glucose (30 mM) followed by evaluation for cell growth. In the presence of normal glucose, nicotine increased both the total cell numbers and Ki-67 positive cell ratio, indicating that nicotine stimulated mesangial cell proliferation. Although high glucose itself also stimulated mesangial cell proliferation, nicotine further enhanced the mitogenic effect of high glucose. Similarly, nicotine increased the expression of Wnts, beta-catenin, and fibronectin in normal glucose medium, but further increased mesangial cell expression of these proteins in high glucose milieu. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic knockdown of beta-catenin activity or expression with specific inhibitor FH535 or siRNA significantly impaired the nicotine/glucose-stimulated cell proliferation and fibronectin production. We conclude that nicotine may enhance renal mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin production under high glucose milieus partly through activating Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Our study provides insight into molecular mechanisms involved in DN.
29572389	Nicotine	Renal Insufficiency, Chronic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nicotine enhances mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin production in high glucose milieu via activation of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.	Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a major complication of diabetes mellitus. Clinic reports indicate cigarette smoking is an independent risk factor for chronic kidney disease including DN; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not clear. Recent studies have demonstrated that nicotine, one of the active compounds in cigarette smoke, contributes to the pathogenesis of the cigarette smoking-accelerated chronic kidney disease. One of the characteristics of DN is the expansion of mesangium, a precursor of glomerular sclerosis. In the present study, we examined the involvement of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in nicotine-mediated mesangial cell growth in high glucose milieu. Primary human renal mesangial cells were treated with nicotine in the presence of normal (5 mM) or high glucose (30 mM) followed by evaluation for cell growth. In the presence of normal glucose, nicotine increased both the total cell numbers and Ki-67 positive cell ratio, indicating that nicotine stimulated mesangial cell proliferation. Although high glucose itself also stimulated mesangial cell proliferation, nicotine further enhanced the mitogenic effect of high glucose. Similarly, nicotine increased the expression of Wnts, beta-catenin, and fibronectin in normal glucose medium, but further increased mesangial cell expression of these proteins in high glucose milieu. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic knockdown of beta-catenin activity or expression with specific inhibitor FH535 or siRNA significantly impaired the nicotine/glucose-stimulated cell proliferation and fibronectin production. We conclude that nicotine may enhance renal mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin production under high glucose milieus partly through activating Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Our study provides insight into molecular mechanisms involved in DN.
29551361	Radium	Fractures, Bone	0	0	0	0		EMA guidance on radium-223 dichloride in prostate cancer.	
29530667	Axitinib	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Preliminary results for avelumab plus axitinib as first-line therapy in patients with advanced clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma (JAVELIN Renal 100): an open-label, dose-finding and dose-expansion, phase 1b trial.	BACKGROUND: The combination of an immune checkpoint inhibitor and a VEGF pathway inhibitor to treat patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma might increase the clinical benefit of these drugs compared with their use alone. Here, we report preliminary results for the combination of avelumab, an IgG1 monoclonal antibody against the programmed cell death protein ligand PD-L1, and axitinib, a VEGF receptor inhibitor approved for second-line treatment of advanced renal-cell carcinoma, in treatment-naive patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma. METHODS: The JAVELIN Renal 100 study is an ongoing open-label, multicentre, dose-finding, and dose-expansion, phase 1b study, done in 14 centres in the USA, UK, and Japan. Eligible patients were aged 18 years or older (>/=20 years in Japan) and had histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced renal-cell carcinoma with clear-cell component, life expectancy of at least 3 months, an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 1 or less, received no previous systemic treatment for advanced renal cell carcinoma, and had a resected primary tumour. Patients enrolled into the dose-finding phase received 5 mg axitinib orally twice daily for 7 days, followed by combination therapy with 10 mg/kg avelumab intravenously every 2 weeks and 5 mg axitinib orally twice daily. Based on the pharmacokinetic data from the dose-finding phase, ten additional patients were enrolled into the dose-expansion phase and assigned to this regimen. The other patients in the dose-expansion phase started taking combination therapy directly. The primary endpoint was dose-limiting toxicities in the first 4 weeks (two cycles) of treatment with avelumab plus axitinib. Safety and antitumour activity analyses were done in all patients who received at least one dose of avelumab or axitinib. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02493751. FINDINGS: Between Oct 30, 2015, and Sept 30, 2016, we enrolled six patients into the dose-finding phase and 49 into the dose-expansion phase of the study. One dose-limiting toxicity of grade 3 proteinuria due to axitinib was reported among the six patients treated during the dose-finding phase. At the cutoff date (April 13, 2017), six (100%, 95% CI 54-100) of six patients in the dose-finding phase and 26 (53%, 38-68) of 49 patients in the dose-expansion phase had confirmed objective responses (32 [58%, 44-71] of all 55 patients). 32 (58%) of 55 patients had grade 3 or worse treatment-related adverse events, the most frequent being hypertension in 16 (29%) patients and increased concentrations of alanine aminotransferase, amylase, and lipase, and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome in four (7%) patients each. Six (11%) of 55 patients died before data cutoff, five (9%) due to disease progression and one (2%) due to treatment-related autoimmune myocarditis. At the end of the dose-finding phase, the maximum tolerated dose established for the combination was avelumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks and axitinib 5 mg twice daily. INTERPRETATION: The safety profile of the combination avelumab plus axitinib in treatment-naive patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma seemed to be manageable and consistent with that of each drug alone, and the preliminary data on antitumour activity are encouraging. A phase 3 trial is assessing avelumab and axitinib compared with sunitinib monotherapy. FUNDING: Pfizer and Merck.
29530667	Axitinib	Proteinuria	0	0	0	0		Preliminary results for avelumab plus axitinib as first-line therapy in patients with advanced clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma (JAVELIN Renal 100): an open-label, dose-finding and dose-expansion, phase 1b trial.	BACKGROUND: The combination of an immune checkpoint inhibitor and a VEGF pathway inhibitor to treat patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma might increase the clinical benefit of these drugs compared with their use alone. Here, we report preliminary results for the combination of avelumab, an IgG1 monoclonal antibody against the programmed cell death protein ligand PD-L1, and axitinib, a VEGF receptor inhibitor approved for second-line treatment of advanced renal-cell carcinoma, in treatment-naive patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma. METHODS: The JAVELIN Renal 100 study is an ongoing open-label, multicentre, dose-finding, and dose-expansion, phase 1b study, done in 14 centres in the USA, UK, and Japan. Eligible patients were aged 18 years or older (>/=20 years in Japan) and had histologically or cytologically confirmed advanced renal-cell carcinoma with clear-cell component, life expectancy of at least 3 months, an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 1 or less, received no previous systemic treatment for advanced renal cell carcinoma, and had a resected primary tumour. Patients enrolled into the dose-finding phase received 5 mg axitinib orally twice daily for 7 days, followed by combination therapy with 10 mg/kg avelumab intravenously every 2 weeks and 5 mg axitinib orally twice daily. Based on the pharmacokinetic data from the dose-finding phase, ten additional patients were enrolled into the dose-expansion phase and assigned to this regimen. The other patients in the dose-expansion phase started taking combination therapy directly. The primary endpoint was dose-limiting toxicities in the first 4 weeks (two cycles) of treatment with avelumab plus axitinib. Safety and antitumour activity analyses were done in all patients who received at least one dose of avelumab or axitinib. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02493751. FINDINGS: Between Oct 30, 2015, and Sept 30, 2016, we enrolled six patients into the dose-finding phase and 49 into the dose-expansion phase of the study. One dose-limiting toxicity of grade 3 proteinuria due to axitinib was reported among the six patients treated during the dose-finding phase. At the cutoff date (April 13, 2017), six (100%, 95% CI 54-100) of six patients in the dose-finding phase and 26 (53%, 38-68) of 49 patients in the dose-expansion phase had confirmed objective responses (32 [58%, 44-71] of all 55 patients). 32 (58%) of 55 patients had grade 3 or worse treatment-related adverse events, the most frequent being hypertension in 16 (29%) patients and increased concentrations of alanine aminotransferase, amylase, and lipase, and palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome in four (7%) patients each. Six (11%) of 55 patients died before data cutoff, five (9%) due to disease progression and one (2%) due to treatment-related autoimmune myocarditis. At the end of the dose-finding phase, the maximum tolerated dose established for the combination was avelumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks and axitinib 5 mg twice daily. INTERPRETATION: The safety profile of the combination avelumab plus axitinib in treatment-naive patients with advanced renal-cell carcinoma seemed to be manageable and consistent with that of each drug alone, and the preliminary data on antitumour activity are encouraging. A phase 3 trial is assessing avelumab and axitinib compared with sunitinib monotherapy. FUNDING: Pfizer and Merck.
29500139	Sotalol	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Assessing the Risk for Peripheral Neuropathy in Patients Treated With Dronedarone Compared With That in Other Antiarrhythmics.	PURPOSE: There are few data on the risk for peripheral neuropathy associated with dronedarone, a newer antiarrhythmic medicine. The objective of this study was to assess whether dronedarone is potentially associated with an increased risk for peripheral neuropathy compared with other antiarrhythmics, including amiodarone, sotalol, flecainide, and propafenone. METHODS: The MarketScan database was used for identifying patients who were at least 18 years of age, had atrial fibrillation or flutter, and had not been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy in the 180-day period prior to or on the date of the first prescription of an antiarrhythmic between July 20, 2009, and December 31, 2011. Peripheral neuropathy that occurred during the treatment period for a study drug was ascertained using ICD-9-CM diagnostic codes. For each antiarrhythmic, the incidence rate of peripheral neuropathy was calculated. The adjusted hazard ratio (aHR) for peripheral neuropathy for dronedarone compared with another antiarrhythmic was obtained, with control for age, sex, diabetes mellitus status, and the presence of other comorbidities. FINDINGS: The study population included 106,933 patients treated with dronedarone (n = 12,989), amiodarone (n = 45,173), sotalol (n = 22,036), flecainide (n = 14,244), or propafenone (n = 12,491). The incidence rates (per 1000 person-years) of peripheral neuropathy were 1.33 for dronedarone, 2.38 for amiodarone, 1.20 for sotalol, 1.08 for flecainide, and 1.97 for propafenone. The aHRs for peripheral neuropathy for dronedarone relative to other drugs ranged from 0.53 (95% CI, 0.21-1.34) compared with propafenone, to 0.94 (95% CI, 0.38-2.30) compared with sotalol. A new-user analysis showed similar results. IMPLICATIONS: The risks for peripheral neuropathy were not significantly different between dronedarone and other antiarrhythmics.
29105117	Rituximab	Mononeuropathies	1	0	0	0		Severe mononeuritis multiplex after rituximab in IgM-kappa monoclonal gammopathy.	
30680668	Imatinib Mesylate	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Renal dysfunction and anemia associated with long-term imatinib treatment in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia.	Knowledge of the toxicity profile of long-term treatment with imatinib is limited. In the present study, we sought to evaluate renal function and hemoglobin levels during long-term imatinib treatment. Eighty-two patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic phase who had been on imatinib for over 5 years were retrospectively analyzed. The mean estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was significantly decreased over 5 years (77 +/- 17 to 62 +/- 14 ml/min/1.73m(2), P < 0.001). Higher age and lower eGFR value at initiation of imatinib were significantly associated with development of renal dysfunction by multivariate analyses. Mean hemoglobin levels also significantly decreased over the 5-year period (12.9 +/- 1.7 to 12.4 +/- 1.3 g/dl, P < 0.01). The rate of decrease in eGFR correlated significantly with hemoglobin levels (correlation coefficient = - 0.249, P < 0.05). Serum erythropoietin (EPO) levels did not increase in 16 patients with both renal dysfunction and anemia (median, 31.9 mIU/ml). In patients who participated in a clinical trial of imatinib discontinuation, mean eGFR (50.0 +/- 6.5 to 56.0 +/- 10.2 ml/min/1.73m(2), P < 0.05) and hemoglobin levels (12.0 +/- 1.7 to 14.0 +/- 1.6 g/dl, P < 0.01) improved significantly at 1 year after discontinuation. These findings suggest that long-term imatinib results in a partially reversible continuous decline in renal function and decreased hemoglobin levels.
30570761	Ketamine	Central Nervous System Diseases	0	0	0	0		Perioperative intravenous ketamine for acute postoperative pain in adults.	BACKGROUND: Inadequate pain management after surgery increases the risk of postoperative complications and may predispose for chronic postsurgical pain. Perioperative ketamine may enhance conventional analgesics in the acute postoperative setting. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of perioperative intravenous ketamine in adult patients when used for the treatment or prevention of acute pain following general anaesthesia. SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE and Embase to July 2018 and three trials registers (metaRegister of controlled trials, ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP)) together with reference checking, citation searching and contact with study authors to identify additional studies. SELECTION CRITERIA: We sought randomised, double-blind, controlled trials of adults undergoing surgery under general anaesthesia and being treated with perioperative intravenous ketamine. Studies compared ketamine with placebo, or compared ketamine plus a basic analgesic, such as morphine or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), with a basic analgesic alone. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors searched for studies, extracted efficacy and adverse event data, examined issues of study quality and potential bias, and performed analyses. Primary outcomes were opioid consumption and pain intensity at rest and during movement at 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. Secondary outcomes were time to first analgesic request, assessment of postoperative hyperalgesia, central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects, and postoperative nausea and vomiting. We assessed the evidence using GRADE and created a 'Summary of findings' table. MAIN RESULTS: We included 130 studies with 8341 participants. Ketamine was given to 4588 participants and 3753 participants served as controls. Types of surgery included ear, nose or throat surgery, wisdom tooth extraction, thoracotomy, lumbar fusion surgery, microdiscectomy, hip joint replacement surgery, knee joint replacement surgery, anterior cruciate ligament repair, knee arthroscopy, mastectomy, haemorrhoidectomy, abdominal surgery, radical prostatectomy, thyroid surgery, elective caesarean section, and laparoscopic surgery. Racemic ketamine bolus doses were predominantly 0.25 mg to 1 mg, and infusions 2 to 5 microg/kg/minute; 10 studies used only S-ketamine and one only R-ketamine. Risk of bias was generally low or uncertain, except for study size; most had fewer than 50 participants per treatment arm, resulting in high heterogeneity, as expected, for most analyses. We did not stratify the main analysis by type of surgery or any other factor, such as dose or timing of ketamine administration, and used a non-stratified analysis.Perioperative intravenous ketamine reduced postoperative opioid consumption over 24 hours by 8 mg morphine equivalents (95% CI 6 to 9; 19% from 42 mg consumed by participants given placebo, moderate-quality evidence; 65 studies, 4004 participants). Over 48 hours, opioid consumption was 13 mg lower (95% CI 10 to 15; 19% from 67 mg with placebo, moderate-quality evidence; 37 studies, 2449 participants).Perioperative intravenous ketamine reduced pain at rest at 24 hours by 5/100 mm on a visual analogue scale (95% CI 4 to 7; 19% lower from 26/100 mm with placebo, high-quality evidence; 82 studies, 5004 participants), and at 48 hours by 5/100 mm (95% CI 3 to 7; 22% lower from 23/100 mm, high-quality evidence; 49 studies, 2962 participants). Pain during movement was reduced at 24 hours (6/100 mm, 14% lower from 42/100 mm, moderate-quality evidence; 29 studies, 1806 participants), and 48 hours (6/100 mm, 16% lower from 37 mm, low-quality evidence; 23 studies, 1353 participants).Results for primary outcomes were consistent when analysed by pain at rest or on movement, operation type, and timing of administration, or sensitivity to study size and pain intensity. No analysis by dose was possible. There was no difference when nitrous oxide was used. We downgraded the quality of the evidence once if numbers of participants were large but small-study effects were present, or twice if numbers were small and small-study effects likely but testing not possible.Ketamine increased the time for the first postoperative analgesic request by 54 minutes (95% CI 37 to 71 minutes), from a mean of 39 minutes with placebo (moderate-quality evidence; 31 studies, 1678 participants). Ketamine reduced the area of postoperative hyperalgesia by 7 cm(2) (95% CI -11.9 to -2.2), compared with placebo (very low-quality evidence; 7 studies 333 participants). We downgraded the quality of evidence because of small-study effects or because the number of participants was below 400.CNS adverse events occurred in 52 studies, while 53 studies reported of absence of CNS adverse events. Overall, 187/3614 (5%) participants receiving ketamine and 122/2924 (4%) receiving control treatment experienced an adverse event (RR 1.2, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.4; high-quality evidence; 105 studies, 6538 participants). Ketamine reduced postoperative nausea and vomiting from 27% with placebo to 23% with ketamine (RR 0.88, 95% CI 0.81 to 0.96; the number needed to treat to prevent one episode of postoperative nausea and vomiting with perioperative intravenous ketamine administration was 24 (95% CI 16 to 54; high-quality evidence; 95 studies, 5965 participants). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Perioperative intravenous ketamine probably reduces postoperative analgesic consumption and pain intensity. Results were consistent in different operation types or timing of ketamine administration, with larger and smaller studies, and by higher and lower pain intensity. CNS adverse events were little different with ketamine or control. Perioperative intravenous ketamine probably reduces postoperative nausea and vomiting by a small extent, of arguable clinical relevance.
30132584	Quetiapine Fumarate	Delirium	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Delirium as a late onset manifestation of quetiapine intoxication].	In this article we describe the developments of two patients who were hospitalized after a quetiapine overdose, subsequently developing delirium. Delirium occurred several hours after ingestion and lasted several days. Laboratory blood testing revealed a slower decline in quetiapine plasma concentration than expected when compared to the standardized half-life averages of therapeutic doses of quetiapine. The clinical state during the first hours after ingestion does not sufficiently predict further clinical outcome. The changes in pharmacokinetics due to the intoxication, so-called toxicokinetics, are the underlying cause.
29506852	Vincristine	Liver Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Chemotherapy can promote liver metastasis by enhancing metastatic niche formation in mice.	BACKGROUND: Some chemotherapeutic agents have been reported to promote lung metastasis. However, there have been no reports regarding chemotherapy-induced liver metastasis. We hypothesized that chemotherapy might also enhance liver metastasis. The present study aimed to create a chemotherapy-enhanced liver metastasis mouse model and investigate its mechanism. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mice were pretreated with cisplatin, vincristine, or saline by intraperitoneal injection. Next, B16F10 mouse melanoma cells and BE(2)-C human neuroblastoma cells were injected into the spleens of C57BL/6 and BALB/c nu/nu mice, respectively, to induce experimental liver metastasis, and the number of liver nodules was determined. We also analyzed the effect of chemotherapy on changes of the liver tissue regarding representative metastasis-promoting factors using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical and histological analysis. RESULTS: Cisplatin increased the number of nodules by 4.7-fold in the B16F10 liver metastasis model. Vincristine increased the number of nodules by 3.8-fold in the BE(2)-C liver metastasis model. Cisplatin increased mRNA levels of matrix-metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and periostin, while vincristine increased MMP-9 and S100A8/9 levels in liver tissues. Cisplatin induced fibrosis, whereas vincristine induced neutrophil recruitment in liver tissues according to histological and immunohistochemical analysis. CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that cisplatin or vincristine could enhance liver metastasis of mouse melanoma cells or human neuroblastoma cells, respectively. In addition, the mRNA expression of MMP-2 and periostin, or MMP-9 and S100A8/9 is increased by cisplatin or vincristine pretreatment, possibly resulting in fibrosis or neutrophil recruitment, respectively. These niche factors might be associated with increased liver metastasis.
29280005	Docetaxel	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Goshajinkigan for prevention of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	PURPOSE: Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) limits the dose of chemotherapy and reduces patients' quality of life. Goshajinkigan is a Japanese herbal medicine used to alleviate neuropathy and general pain. A clinical guideline for prevention and management of CIPN stated that the prophylactic efficacy of goshajinkigan against CIPN was inconclusive. We conducted a systematic review to examine whether goshajinkigan prevents CIPN in patients receiving neurotoxic chemotherapy. METHODS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, Ichushi, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for eligible trials. Randomized controlled trials that examined the efficacy and safety of goshajinkigan for prevention of CIPN were included. Our primary outcomes were incidence of CIPN, response to chemotherapy, and adverse effects. We pooled data using a random effects model. RESULTS: We analyzed five trials involving a total of 397 patients. When evaluated with Neurotoxicity Criteria of Debiopharm, goshajinkigan was associated with reduced incidence of CIPN of grade >/= 1 (risk ratio [RR] 0.43; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.66) and grade 3 (RR 0.42; 95% CI, 0.25 to 0.71), but this beneficial association was not found for grade >/= 2 of CIPN. Goshajinkigan was not associated with reduced incidence of CIPN when assessed with the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, or improved response to chemotherapy. Goshajinkigan was well tolerated based on one trial. CONCLUSIONS: Goshajinkigan is unlikely to prevent CIPN in patients undergoing neurotoxic chemotherapy. Given the low quality and insufficient amount of the evidence, use of goshajinkigan as standard of care is not currently recommended.
30212527	Betamethasone	Metabolic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Antenatal exposure to betamethasone induces placental 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 expression and the adult metabolic disorders in mice.	Antenatal overexposure to glucocorticoids causes fetal intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and adult metabolic disorders. 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11beta-HSD) 1 and 2 are key enzymes for glucocorticoid metabolism, however, the detailed effects of antenatal overexposure to glucocorticoids on placental 11beta-HSD1 and 2 expression and adult metabolic disorders remain obscure. Here, we report that, in placenta 11beta-HSD1 is diffusely localized, whereas 11beta-HSD2 is specifically expressed in labyrinthine layer. Exposure of pregnant dams to betamethasone significantly increases the expression of placental 11beta-HSD2 but not 11beta-HSD1, and decreases the weights of fetuses but not placentas. Antenatal exposure to betamethasone leads to either significant weight loss in the offspring younger than 10-week-old, or weight gain in those older than 14-week-old. Furthermore, antenatal exposure to betamethasone results in coexistence of various metabolic disorders in adult offspring, including hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance, low insulin secretory capacity and hyperlipidemia. The present study demonstrates that exposure of pregnant dams to betamethasone induces the expression of placental 11beta-HSD2 but not 11beta-HSD1, leads to fetal IUGR and causes adult metabolic disorders, providing evidence for fetal origins of adult diseases and the potential role of placental 11beta-HSD2 in them.
30196795	Imatinib Mesylate	Arthritis	1	0	0	0		Leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia in a man with chronic myeloid leukemia: a case report and review of the literature.	BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic myeloid leukemia typically present with high white blood cell counts revealed during annual checkups. Leukemic arthritis and hypercalcemia are rare manifestations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. CASE PRESENTATION: A 35-year-old Thai man who had been diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia in the chronic phase developed blast crisis while he was receiving ongoing treatment with imatinib at 400 mg/day. Initially, he presented with oligoarthritis in both knees and ankles. A bone scintigraphy showed a prominent bony uptake, with a symmetrical, increased uptake in many bone areas. Induction therapy with a 7 + 3 induction regimen was prescribed in conjunction with 600 mg of imatinib once daily before switching to 140 mg of dasatinib. He subsequently developed severe hypercalcemia (total serum calcium of 17.8 mg/dL), with generalized osteolytic lesions detected on a bone survey. His serum vitamin D level was 50.64 ng/mL, while the serum parathyroid hormone level was 9.82 pg/mL. Despite the administration of an aggressive intravenously administered hydration, intravenously administered calcitonin, and 600 mg/day of imatinib, the severe hypercalcemia was refractory. We therefore decided to prescribe 20 mg/day of intravenously administered dexamethasone; fortunately, his serum calcium level decreased dramatically to normal range within a few days. CONCLUSIONS: Although leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia are extraordinary presentations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, the advanced phase of the disease might bring on these symptoms. Apart from parathyroid hormone-related protein-related hypercalcemia, vitamin D is a mechanism of humoral-mediated hypercalcemia.
30196795	Imatinib Mesylate	Blast Crisis	1	0	0	0		Leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia in a man with chronic myeloid leukemia: a case report and review of the literature.	BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic myeloid leukemia typically present with high white blood cell counts revealed during annual checkups. Leukemic arthritis and hypercalcemia are rare manifestations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. CASE PRESENTATION: A 35-year-old Thai man who had been diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia in the chronic phase developed blast crisis while he was receiving ongoing treatment with imatinib at 400 mg/day. Initially, he presented with oligoarthritis in both knees and ankles. A bone scintigraphy showed a prominent bony uptake, with a symmetrical, increased uptake in many bone areas. Induction therapy with a 7 + 3 induction regimen was prescribed in conjunction with 600 mg of imatinib once daily before switching to 140 mg of dasatinib. He subsequently developed severe hypercalcemia (total serum calcium of 17.8 mg/dL), with generalized osteolytic lesions detected on a bone survey. His serum vitamin D level was 50.64 ng/mL, while the serum parathyroid hormone level was 9.82 pg/mL. Despite the administration of an aggressive intravenously administered hydration, intravenously administered calcitonin, and 600 mg/day of imatinib, the severe hypercalcemia was refractory. We therefore decided to prescribe 20 mg/day of intravenously administered dexamethasone; fortunately, his serum calcium level decreased dramatically to normal range within a few days. CONCLUSIONS: Although leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia are extraordinary presentations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, the advanced phase of the disease might bring on these symptoms. Apart from parathyroid hormone-related protein-related hypercalcemia, vitamin D is a mechanism of humoral-mediated hypercalcemia.
30196795	Imatinib Mesylate	Hypercalcemia	1	0	0	0		Leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia in a man with chronic myeloid leukemia: a case report and review of the literature.	BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic myeloid leukemia typically present with high white blood cell counts revealed during annual checkups. Leukemic arthritis and hypercalcemia are rare manifestations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia. CASE PRESENTATION: A 35-year-old Thai man who had been diagnosed with chronic myeloid leukemia in the chronic phase developed blast crisis while he was receiving ongoing treatment with imatinib at 400 mg/day. Initially, he presented with oligoarthritis in both knees and ankles. A bone scintigraphy showed a prominent bony uptake, with a symmetrical, increased uptake in many bone areas. Induction therapy with a 7 + 3 induction regimen was prescribed in conjunction with 600 mg of imatinib once daily before switching to 140 mg of dasatinib. He subsequently developed severe hypercalcemia (total serum calcium of 17.8 mg/dL), with generalized osteolytic lesions detected on a bone survey. His serum vitamin D level was 50.64 ng/mL, while the serum parathyroid hormone level was 9.82 pg/mL. Despite the administration of an aggressive intravenously administered hydration, intravenously administered calcitonin, and 600 mg/day of imatinib, the severe hypercalcemia was refractory. We therefore decided to prescribe 20 mg/day of intravenously administered dexamethasone; fortunately, his serum calcium level decreased dramatically to normal range within a few days. CONCLUSIONS: Although leukemic arthritis and severe hypercalcemia are extraordinary presentations in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, the advanced phase of the disease might bring on these symptoms. Apart from parathyroid hormone-related protein-related hypercalcemia, vitamin D is a mechanism of humoral-mediated hypercalcemia.
30176620	Nivolumab	Ketosis	1	1	0	0	1.0	Acute-onset diabetes mellitus with ketoacidosis in a nivolumab-treated patient with hepatocellular carcinoma.	The therapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (Programmed cell death-1 and programmed cell death-ligand-1 inhibitors) is a novel and promising approach in cancer treatment. The mode of action can cause serious adverse advents, mainly immune-related ones. The case of a 65 year old caucasian female is reported. She suffers from hepatocellular carcinoma since 2012. She underwent several surgeries, was treated with sorafenib and had transcatheter arterial chemoembolizations. As part of an individual healing trial, the patient was treated with nivolumab every 2 or 3 weeks since September 2017 and has no recurrence of the tumor ever since. Eight months after onset of the therapy she rapidly developed an insulin-dependent diabetes with ketoacidosis. She had no previous history of diabetes. She had no type 1 diabetes-related autoantibodies or a common HLA-genotype associated with a higher risk to develop type 1 diabetes mellitus. This adverse event during therapy with an immune checkpoint inhibitor is yet reported to be rare. Cases with a rapid-onset diabetes with ketoacidosis have also been reported under treatment with other immune checkpoint inhibitors. The pathomechanism is not clear yet and which patients are at an elevated risk. An increasing use of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy can be expected. This may cause a concurrent increase of the side effect diabetes. Glucose monitoring and sensitizing the patients for this adverse event seems reasonable.
30014486	Bevacizumab	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Characteristic morphological changes in anti-VEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy.	AIMS: Agents targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have increasingly been used for the treatment of advanced malignancies, and have been found to induce renal thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) and proteinuria. However, histomorphological changes in human biopsies in this setting and the underlying mechanism are not yet fully understood. Therefore, we collected renal biopsy cases with a history of aVEGF therapy to review and compare morphological kidney changes in this context. METHODS AND RESULTS: Renal biopsies of 15 patients who had received anti-VEGF (aVEGF) therapy evaluated between 2013 and 2017 at a single centre were morphologically characterised with light microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry (IgA, IgG, IgM, C1q, and C3), and compared with cases with acute TMA caused by atypical haemolytic-uraemic syndrome or hypertension. Morphological overlap with immune complex and cryoglobulinaemic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, diabetic glomerulopathy and pre-eclampsia-induced glomerulopathy are discussed. Segmental glomerular capillary microaneurysms and segmental hyalinosis were typical morphological features of aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy, whereas fibrin or platelet thrombi or fragmented erythrocytes were rarely found or were absent. aVEGF therapy-associated microangiopathy was diffusely distributed in the glomeruli, spared preglomerular vessels, and showed morphological characteristics of chronic TMA. In individual cases, aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy was accompanied by immune-complex glomerulonephritis. CONCLUSION: aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy has a characteristic morphology and clinical presentation that helps to differentiate it from other causes of TMA. Awareness of these light microscopic findings allows identification of aVEGF therapy as a trigger of renal disease in critically ill cancer patients, and might therefore help in deciding on further therapy.
30014486	Sunitinib	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Characteristic morphological changes in anti-VEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy.	AIMS: Agents targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have increasingly been used for the treatment of advanced malignancies, and have been found to induce renal thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) and proteinuria. However, histomorphological changes in human biopsies in this setting and the underlying mechanism are not yet fully understood. Therefore, we collected renal biopsy cases with a history of aVEGF therapy to review and compare morphological kidney changes in this context. METHODS AND RESULTS: Renal biopsies of 15 patients who had received anti-VEGF (aVEGF) therapy evaluated between 2013 and 2017 at a single centre were morphologically characterised with light microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry (IgA, IgG, IgM, C1q, and C3), and compared with cases with acute TMA caused by atypical haemolytic-uraemic syndrome or hypertension. Morphological overlap with immune complex and cryoglobulinaemic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, diabetic glomerulopathy and pre-eclampsia-induced glomerulopathy are discussed. Segmental glomerular capillary microaneurysms and segmental hyalinosis were typical morphological features of aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy, whereas fibrin or platelet thrombi or fragmented erythrocytes were rarely found or were absent. aVEGF therapy-associated microangiopathy was diffusely distributed in the glomeruli, spared preglomerular vessels, and showed morphological characteristics of chronic TMA. In individual cases, aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy was accompanied by immune-complex glomerulonephritis. CONCLUSION: aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy has a characteristic morphology and clinical presentation that helps to differentiate it from other causes of TMA. Awareness of these light microscopic findings allows identification of aVEGF therapy as a trigger of renal disease in critically ill cancer patients, and might therefore help in deciding on further therapy.
30014486	Sunitinib	Thrombotic Microangiopathies	1	1	0	1	0.0	Characteristic morphological changes in anti-VEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy.	AIMS: Agents targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) have increasingly been used for the treatment of advanced malignancies, and have been found to induce renal thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) and proteinuria. However, histomorphological changes in human biopsies in this setting and the underlying mechanism are not yet fully understood. Therefore, we collected renal biopsy cases with a history of aVEGF therapy to review and compare morphological kidney changes in this context. METHODS AND RESULTS: Renal biopsies of 15 patients who had received anti-VEGF (aVEGF) therapy evaluated between 2013 and 2017 at a single centre were morphologically characterised with light microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry (IgA, IgG, IgM, C1q, and C3), and compared with cases with acute TMA caused by atypical haemolytic-uraemic syndrome or hypertension. Morphological overlap with immune complex and cryoglobulinaemic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, diabetic glomerulopathy and pre-eclampsia-induced glomerulopathy are discussed. Segmental glomerular capillary microaneurysms and segmental hyalinosis were typical morphological features of aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy, whereas fibrin or platelet thrombi or fragmented erythrocytes were rarely found or were absent. aVEGF therapy-associated microangiopathy was diffusely distributed in the glomeruli, spared preglomerular vessels, and showed morphological characteristics of chronic TMA. In individual cases, aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy was accompanied by immune-complex glomerulonephritis. CONCLUSION: aVEGF therapy-induced glomerular microangiopathy has a characteristic morphology and clinical presentation that helps to differentiate it from other causes of TMA. Awareness of these light microscopic findings allows identification of aVEGF therapy as a trigger of renal disease in critically ill cancer patients, and might therefore help in deciding on further therapy.
29481892	Rocuronium	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		Concurrent immunoglobulin E-mediated neuromuscular blocking agent allergy in systemic mastocytosis.	
29409962	Methacholine Chloride	Asthma, Occupational	1	0	0	0		Occupational asthma caused by high- and low-molecular weight agents in an auto body worker.	
29409962	Methacholine Chloride	Latex Hypersensitivity	1	0	0	0		Occupational asthma caused by high- and low-molecular weight agents in an auto body worker.	
30741131	Atorvastatin	Anemia, Hemolytic	1	0	0	0		Statins Can Lead to Acute Hemolysis.	
30003466	Ticagrelor	Muscular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Assessment of the Risk of Rhabdomyolysis and Myopathy During Concomitant Treatment with Ticagrelor and Statins.	The introduction of ticagrelor, one of the first directly-acting oral antiplatelet drugs, provided new possibilities in the prevention of thrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Current guidelines recommend ticagrelor in dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin over clopidogrel for prevention of stent thrombosis in patients with ACS. Moreover, in the management of ACS, lipid-lowering treatment with high-intensity statin therapy is advised for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events over the long term. Despite the apparent advantages of combined antiplatelet and lipid-lowering treatments, a possible interaction between statins and ticagrelor may lead to myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. In this review, relevant information was gathered on the ticagrelor-statin interaction that might lead to this life-threatening condition. This review focuses on the most widely used statins-simvastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin. Possible mechanisms of this interaction are discussed, including CYP3A4 isoenzymes, organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATPs), P-glycoprotein and glucuronidation. PubMed database was searched for relevant case reports and all data gathered from the introduction of ticagrelor to March 2018 are presented and discussed. In summary, co-administration of statins and ticagrelor was found to be relatively safe in routinely prescribed doses. However, caution should be exercised, especially in elder populations.
30003466	Ticagrelor	Rhabdomyolysis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Assessment of the Risk of Rhabdomyolysis and Myopathy During Concomitant Treatment with Ticagrelor and Statins.	The introduction of ticagrelor, one of the first directly-acting oral antiplatelet drugs, provided new possibilities in the prevention of thrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Current guidelines recommend ticagrelor in dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin over clopidogrel for prevention of stent thrombosis in patients with ACS. Moreover, in the management of ACS, lipid-lowering treatment with high-intensity statin therapy is advised for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events over the long term. Despite the apparent advantages of combined antiplatelet and lipid-lowering treatments, a possible interaction between statins and ticagrelor may lead to myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. In this review, relevant information was gathered on the ticagrelor-statin interaction that might lead to this life-threatening condition. This review focuses on the most widely used statins-simvastatin, atorvastatin, and rosuvastatin. Possible mechanisms of this interaction are discussed, including CYP3A4 isoenzymes, organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATPs), P-glycoprotein and glucuronidation. PubMed database was searched for relevant case reports and all data gathered from the introduction of ticagrelor to March 2018 are presented and discussed. In summary, co-administration of statins and ticagrelor was found to be relatively safe in routinely prescribed doses. However, caution should be exercised, especially in elder populations.
30813195	Remifentanil	Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30813195	Remifentanil	Lung Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30813195	Remifentanil	Pulmonary Edema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30813195	Sugammadex	Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30813195	Sugammadex	Lung Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30813195	Sugammadex	Pulmonary Edema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage following sugammadex and remifentanil administration: A case report.	RATIONALE: Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) is a rare life-threatening condition that accompanies general anesthesia. Negative-pressure pulmonary edema (NPPE) is a rare cause of DAH. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old male patient developed hemoptysis following remifentanil administration by bolus injection with sugammadex at the emergence from general anesthesia. DIAGNOSIS: Chest x-ray and computed tomography showed DAH. INTERVENTIONS: Conservative care was provided with 4L of oxygen via nasal prong, 20 mg of Lasix and 2500 mg of tranexamic acid. OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged uneventfully. LESSONS: Muscle rigidity by remifentanil and the dissociated reversal of neuromuscular blockade by sugammadex was suspected as the cause of NPPE-related DAH. Therefore, the possibility NPPE-related DAH should be considered when using a bolus of remifentanil and sugammadex during emergence from general anesthesia.
30344158	Gabapentin	Pseudolymphoma	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous pseudolymphoma secondary to gabapentin.	
30344158	Gabapentin	Skin Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous pseudolymphoma secondary to gabapentin.	
30205352	Pramipexole	Gambling	1	1	0	0	0.0	Drug-induced gambling disorder: A not so rare but underreported condition.	The widespread use of dopaminergic agents for the treatment of Parkinson's disease has revealed the presence of gambling disorder (GD) as an uncommon, but serious, adverse reaction to these agents. We describe the main characteristics of drug-induced GD reports received by the Spanish Pharmacovigilance System during the period from 1983 to 2016. Fifteen reports of GD have been identified. Dopaminergic agonists, especially pramipexole, are the main drugs involved in inducing GD. Physicians prescribing these drugs should warn patients and families about this disorder. Knowledge of this disorder will encourage early diagnosis, treatment, and reporting of this clinically and socially relevant disorder.
29970059	Calcifediol	Hypercalciuria	0	0	0	0		Calcifediol (25-hydroxyvitamin D) improvement and calcium-phosphate metabolism of alendronate sodium/vitamin D(3) combination in Chinese women with postmenopausal osteoporosis: a post hoc efficacy analysis and safety reappraisal.	BACKGROUND: Vitamin D (VD) insufficiency or deficiency is a frequent comorbidity in Chinese women with postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO). The present study aimed to investigate 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH) D] improvement and calcium-phosphate metabolism in Chinese PMO patients treated with 70 mg of alendronate sodium and 5600 IU of vitamin D(3) (ALN/D5600). METHODS: Chinese PMO women (n = 219) were treated with 12-month ALN/D5600 (n = 111) or calcitriol (n = 108). Changes in 25(OH) D at month 12 were post hoc analyzed by the baseline 25 (OH) D status using the longitudinal analysis. The main safety outcome measures included serum calcium and phosphate and 24-h urine calcium, and the repeated measures mixed model was used to assess the frequencies of the calcium-phosphate metabolic disorders. RESULTS: Absolute change in mean serum 25(OH) D level was the greatest in VD-deficient patients and least in VD-sufficient patients at months six and 12 (both, P < 0.01). Serum calcium level remained significantly lower in the ALN/D5600 treatment group than in the calcitriol treatment group throughout the 12 months. Mean 24-h urine calcium slightly increased in the ALN/D5600 treatment group and significantly increased in the calcitriol treatment group (+ 1.1 and + 0.9 mmol/L at months six and 12; both, P < 0.05). Calcitriol treatment was associated with more frequent hypercalciuria at month six (9.4% vs. 18.5%, P = 0.05), but not at month 12 (12.3% vs. 13.0%). CONCLUSION: Baseline VD status predicted 25(OH) D improvement in PMO patients on 12-month ALN/D5600 treatment. The daily use of 0.25 mug of calcitriol was associated with more frequent hypercalciuria at month six, compared to ALN/5600 treatment, necessitating the safety re-evaluation of calcitriol at a higher dosage.
29945596	Warfarin	Urinary Tract Infections	1	0	0	0		Is fast reversal and early surgery (within 24 h) in patients on warfarin medication with trochanteric hip fractures safe? A case-control study.	BACKGROUND: Hip fracture patients in general are elderly and they often have comorbidities that may necessitate anticoagulation treatment, such as warfarin. It has been emphasized that these patients benefit from surgery without delay to avoid complications and reduce mortality. This creates a challenge for patients on warfarin and especially for those with trochanteric or subtrochanteric hip fractures treated with intramedullary nailing, as this is associated with increased bleeding compared to other types of hip fractures and surgical methods. The aim of the study was to evaluate if early surgery (within 24 h) of trochanteric or subtrochanteric hip fractures using intramedullary nailing is safe in patients on warfarin treatment after fast reversal of the warfarin effect. METHODS: A retrospective case-control study including 198 patients: 99 warfarin patients and 99 patients without anticoagulants as a 1:1 ratio control group matched for age, gender and surgical implant. All patients were operated within 24 h with a cephalomedullary nail due to a trochanteric or subtrochanteric hip fracture. All patients on warfarin were reversed if necessary to INR </= 1.5 before surgery using vitamin K and/or four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC). Per- and postoperative data, transfusion rates, adverse events and mortality was compared. RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the calculated blood-loss, in-house adverse events or mortality (in-house, 30-day or 1-year) between the groups. There were no significant differences in the pre- or peroperative transfusions rates, but there was an increased rate of postoperative transfusions in the control group (p = 0.02). CONCLUSION: We found that surgical treatment with intramedullary nailing within 24 h of patients with trochanteric or subtrochanteric hip fractures on warfarin medication after reversing its effect to INR </= 1.5 using vitamin K and/or PCC is safe.
29547753	Amisulpride	Dystonia	1	0	0	0		Amisulpride induced acute dystonia.	
29442401	Vitamin B 12	Musculoskeletal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Single arm phase II study of oral vitamin B12 for the treatment of musculoskeletal symptoms associated with aromatase inhibitors in women with early stage breast cancer.	Breast cancer patients receiving endocrine therapy with aromatase Inhibitors (AIs) often experience musculoskeletal and joint-related side effects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of Vitamin B12 supplements on musculoskeletal symptoms such as pain and arthralgias induced by AIs and to correlate response with serum and inflammatory biomarkers. Upon receiving approval by the Institutional Review Board (IRB), the majority of the patients consented into the study were treated at the Texas Tech Breast Care Center. Included were patients who had a diagnosis of invasive breast cancer (Stages I-III), and were experiencing significant musculoskeletal symptoms associated to AIs. Only patients with an average pain score >/= 4, as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) questionnaire, were included in the study. Participants received 2500 mcg of sublingual vitamin B12 daily for 90 days. Assessments at baseline and at 3 months included: BPI-SF pain scores, the impact on quality of life determined by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-ES), and correlative serum markers relative to baseline (a pre-post study). A total of forty-one patients were enrolled. Average pain scores were improved by 34% (P < .0001) at 3 months compared to baseline. In addition, a 23% improvement in worst pain was noted (P = .0003). Analysis of the results for the FACT-ES scoring showed improvement on all scales. No significant adverse events were observed. Decrease in pain score was correlated with increased serum B12 levels. This study suggests that Vitamin B12 reduces pain and improves quality of life for patients taking AIs who experienced AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms. If confirmed in large randomized prospective trials, Vitamin B12 would be a safe and cost-effective option for the treatment of AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms.
29442401	Vitamin B 12	Pain	0	0	0	0		Single arm phase II study of oral vitamin B12 for the treatment of musculoskeletal symptoms associated with aromatase inhibitors in women with early stage breast cancer.	Breast cancer patients receiving endocrine therapy with aromatase Inhibitors (AIs) often experience musculoskeletal and joint-related side effects. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of Vitamin B12 supplements on musculoskeletal symptoms such as pain and arthralgias induced by AIs and to correlate response with serum and inflammatory biomarkers. Upon receiving approval by the Institutional Review Board (IRB), the majority of the patients consented into the study were treated at the Texas Tech Breast Care Center. Included were patients who had a diagnosis of invasive breast cancer (Stages I-III), and were experiencing significant musculoskeletal symptoms associated to AIs. Only patients with an average pain score >/= 4, as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) questionnaire, were included in the study. Participants received 2500 mcg of sublingual vitamin B12 daily for 90 days. Assessments at baseline and at 3 months included: BPI-SF pain scores, the impact on quality of life determined by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-ES), and correlative serum markers relative to baseline (a pre-post study). A total of forty-one patients were enrolled. Average pain scores were improved by 34% (P < .0001) at 3 months compared to baseline. In addition, a 23% improvement in worst pain was noted (P = .0003). Analysis of the results for the FACT-ES scoring showed improvement on all scales. No significant adverse events were observed. Decrease in pain score was correlated with increased serum B12 levels. This study suggests that Vitamin B12 reduces pain and improves quality of life for patients taking AIs who experienced AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms. If confirmed in large randomized prospective trials, Vitamin B12 would be a safe and cost-effective option for the treatment of AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms.
28704786	Amisulpride	Urinary Incontinence	1	0	0	0		Urinary incontinence secondary to amisulpride Use-A report.	
28607509	Docetaxel	Hematologic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Genetic background influences susceptibility to chemotherapy-induced hematotoxicity.	Hematotoxicity is a life-threatening side effect of many chemotherapy regimens. Although clinical factors influence patient responses, genetic factors may also play an important role. We sought to identify genomic loci that influence chemotherapy-induced hematotoxicity by dosing Diversity Outbred mice with one of three chemotherapy drugs; doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide or docetaxel. We observed that each drug had a distinct effect on both the changes in blood cell subpopulations and the underlying genetic architecture of hematotoxicity. For doxorubicin, we mapped the change in cell counts before and after dosing and found that alleles of ATP-binding cassette B1B (Abcb1b) on chromosome 5 influence all cell populations. For cyclophosphamide and docetaxel, we found that each cell population was influenced by distinct loci, none of which overlapped between drugs. These results suggest that susceptibility to chemotherapy-induced hematotoxicity is influenced by different genes for different chemotherapy drugs.
30431741	Ipilimumab	Autoimmune Hypophysitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypophysitis and other autoimmune complications related to immune checkpoints inhibitors  treatment: Spectrum of imaging appearances.	OBJECTIVES: Immune checkpoints inhibitors (ICI) represent a new therapy option for the treatment of several advanced tumors. However, this therapy has been linked to a spectrum of ICI related autoimmune (AI) adverse events. Some may be life threatening and their diagnosis is tricky. The aim of our study was to describe various imaging appearances of ICI related secondary hypophysitis and other coincidental AI diseases. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We included 28 patients (19 females, 9 men, mean aged 58+/-13 years), who were consecutively treated mostly for advanced stage melanoma by different ICI. All their CT/MRI records and clinical data were reviewed. RESULTS: We found 5 (18%) cases of endocrinology proven secondary hypophysitis; 2 cases of panhypopituitarism and 3 cases of central hypocortisolism. Four cases were MRI positive, 1 case was MRI negative. Three cases were accompanied by other AI diseases: 1 by hemorrhagic colitis and mesenterial lymphadenitis, 1 by AI pancreatitis and 1 by pneumonitis. On MRI pituitary gland was swollen in 3 cases, twice enhanced non-homogenously, once homogenously; infundibular enlargement was present in 2 cases. Those 3 cases reacted to glucocorticoid therapy by hypophyseal shrinkage. In 1 case of MRI positive hypophysitis, the pituitary gland was not enlarged, slightly nonhomogeneous with peripheral contour enhancement; no reaction to glucocorticoids was mentioned. CONCLUSION: Secondary hypophysitis is probably more common ICI related adverse event than reported in the literature. Its MRI appearance is variable. Most of our cases were in coincidence with other AI ICI related events that affected their clinical manifestations.
30431741	Ipilimumab	Hypopituitarism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypophysitis and other autoimmune complications related to immune checkpoints inhibitors  treatment: Spectrum of imaging appearances.	OBJECTIVES: Immune checkpoints inhibitors (ICI) represent a new therapy option for the treatment of several advanced tumors. However, this therapy has been linked to a spectrum of ICI related autoimmune (AI) adverse events. Some may be life threatening and their diagnosis is tricky. The aim of our study was to describe various imaging appearances of ICI related secondary hypophysitis and other coincidental AI diseases. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We included 28 patients (19 females, 9 men, mean aged 58+/-13 years), who were consecutively treated mostly for advanced stage melanoma by different ICI. All their CT/MRI records and clinical data were reviewed. RESULTS: We found 5 (18%) cases of endocrinology proven secondary hypophysitis; 2 cases of panhypopituitarism and 3 cases of central hypocortisolism. Four cases were MRI positive, 1 case was MRI negative. Three cases were accompanied by other AI diseases: 1 by hemorrhagic colitis and mesenterial lymphadenitis, 1 by AI pancreatitis and 1 by pneumonitis. On MRI pituitary gland was swollen in 3 cases, twice enhanced non-homogenously, once homogenously; infundibular enlargement was present in 2 cases. Those 3 cases reacted to glucocorticoid therapy by hypophyseal shrinkage. In 1 case of MRI positive hypophysitis, the pituitary gland was not enlarged, slightly nonhomogeneous with peripheral contour enhancement; no reaction to glucocorticoids was mentioned. CONCLUSION: Secondary hypophysitis is probably more common ICI related adverse event than reported in the literature. Its MRI appearance is variable. Most of our cases were in coincidence with other AI ICI related events that affected their clinical manifestations.
30431741	Ipilimumab	Pancreatitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypophysitis and other autoimmune complications related to immune checkpoints inhibitors  treatment: Spectrum of imaging appearances.	OBJECTIVES: Immune checkpoints inhibitors (ICI) represent a new therapy option for the treatment of several advanced tumors. However, this therapy has been linked to a spectrum of ICI related autoimmune (AI) adverse events. Some may be life threatening and their diagnosis is tricky. The aim of our study was to describe various imaging appearances of ICI related secondary hypophysitis and other coincidental AI diseases. MATERIAL AND METHODS: We included 28 patients (19 females, 9 men, mean aged 58+/-13 years), who were consecutively treated mostly for advanced stage melanoma by different ICI. All their CT/MRI records and clinical data were reviewed. RESULTS: We found 5 (18%) cases of endocrinology proven secondary hypophysitis; 2 cases of panhypopituitarism and 3 cases of central hypocortisolism. Four cases were MRI positive, 1 case was MRI negative. Three cases were accompanied by other AI diseases: 1 by hemorrhagic colitis and mesenterial lymphadenitis, 1 by AI pancreatitis and 1 by pneumonitis. On MRI pituitary gland was swollen in 3 cases, twice enhanced non-homogenously, once homogenously; infundibular enlargement was present in 2 cases. Those 3 cases reacted to glucocorticoid therapy by hypophyseal shrinkage. In 1 case of MRI positive hypophysitis, the pituitary gland was not enlarged, slightly nonhomogeneous with peripheral contour enhancement; no reaction to glucocorticoids was mentioned. CONCLUSION: Secondary hypophysitis is probably more common ICI related adverse event than reported in the literature. Its MRI appearance is variable. Most of our cases were in coincidence with other AI ICI related events that affected their clinical manifestations.
29956217	Gabapentin	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Gabapentin and Pregabalin and Risk of Atrial Fibrillation in the Elderly: A Population-Based Cohort Study in an Electronic Prescription Database.	INTRODUCTION: Gabapentin and pregabalin are widely prescribed to elderly people, but data on their pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy in this population are scarce. Neurological adverse effects are common. Atrial fibrillation (AF) associated with their use has been described in several case reports and case series, but the incidence is unknown. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the association between exposure to gabapentin or pregabalin and AF in the elderly. METHODS: Patients >/= 65 years of age starting treatment with either gabapentin or pregabalin between January 1 and March 31, 2015, free of cardiovascular disease, and who did not receive the alternate study medications were studied. They were compared with patients who initiated treatment with an analgesic opiate or with alprazolam or diazepam. The two primary outcome variables were a first claim of an oral anticoagulant plus an antiarrhythmic drug (OAC + AA), or of an oral anticoagulant or an antiplatelet agent plus an antiarrhythmic drug (OAC/APA + AA), in the 3 months after treatment initiation. RESULTS: Compared with opiate analgesics, both gabapentin and pregabalin were associated with an increased risk of initiating OAC/APA + AA. The incidence was 6 of 668 (9.0 per 1000 patients) with gabapentin, versus 12 of 3889 (3.1 per 1000) with opiates, relative risk (RR) 2.91 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.10-7.73), and for pregabalin it was 6 of 698 (8.6 per 1000) RR 2.79 (95% CI 1.05-7.40). The comparison with alprazolam/diazepam gave similar results. The risks did not vary by age, sex, or co-treatment with NSAIDs, and they increased with dose. CONCLUSION: In elderly patients free of cardiovascular disease, an association between new exposure to gabapentin or pregabalin and initiating treatment for AF was found. These results should be confirmed in other studies.
29956217	Pregabalin	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Gabapentin and Pregabalin and Risk of Atrial Fibrillation in the Elderly: A Population-Based Cohort Study in an Electronic Prescription Database.	INTRODUCTION: Gabapentin and pregabalin are widely prescribed to elderly people, but data on their pharmacokinetics, safety, and efficacy in this population are scarce. Neurological adverse effects are common. Atrial fibrillation (AF) associated with their use has been described in several case reports and case series, but the incidence is unknown. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the association between exposure to gabapentin or pregabalin and AF in the elderly. METHODS: Patients >/= 65 years of age starting treatment with either gabapentin or pregabalin between January 1 and March 31, 2015, free of cardiovascular disease, and who did not receive the alternate study medications were studied. They were compared with patients who initiated treatment with an analgesic opiate or with alprazolam or diazepam. The two primary outcome variables were a first claim of an oral anticoagulant plus an antiarrhythmic drug (OAC + AA), or of an oral anticoagulant or an antiplatelet agent plus an antiarrhythmic drug (OAC/APA + AA), in the 3 months after treatment initiation. RESULTS: Compared with opiate analgesics, both gabapentin and pregabalin were associated with an increased risk of initiating OAC/APA + AA. The incidence was 6 of 668 (9.0 per 1000 patients) with gabapentin, versus 12 of 3889 (3.1 per 1000) with opiates, relative risk (RR) 2.91 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.10-7.73), and for pregabalin it was 6 of 698 (8.6 per 1000) RR 2.79 (95% CI 1.05-7.40). The comparison with alprazolam/diazepam gave similar results. The risks did not vary by age, sex, or co-treatment with NSAIDs, and they increased with dose. CONCLUSION: In elderly patients free of cardiovascular disease, an association between new exposure to gabapentin or pregabalin and initiating treatment for AF was found. These results should be confirmed in other studies.
29878256	Alemtuzumab	Graves Disease	1	1	0	0	0.0	Alemtuzumab-Induced Thyroid Dysfunction Exhibits Distinctive Clinical and Immunological Features.	CONTEXT: Alemtuzumab, a highly effective treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS), predisposes to Graves disease (GD), with a reportedly indolent course. OBJECTIVE: To determine the type, frequency, and course of thyroid dysfunction (TD) in a cohort of alemtuzumab-treated patients with MS in the United Kingdom. DESIGN: Case records of alemtuzumab-treated patients who developed TD were reviewed. RESULTS: A total of 41.1% (102 out of 248; 80 female and 22 male) of patients developed TD, principally GD (71.6%). Median onset was 17 months (range 2 to 107) following the last dose, with the majority (89%) within 3 years. Follow-up data (range 6 to 251 months) were available in 71 case subjects, of whom 52 (73.2%) developed GD: 10 of these (19.2%) had fluctuating TD. All 52 patients with GD commenced antithyroid drugs (ATDs): 3 required radioiodine (RAI) due to ATD side effects, and drug therapy is ongoing in 2; of those who completed a course, 16 are in remission, 1 developed spontaneous hypothyroidism, and 30 (64%) required definitive or long-term treatment (RAI, n = 17; thyroidectomy, n = 5; and long-term ATDs, n = 8). Three cases of thyroiditis and 16 cases of hypothyroidism were documented: 5 with antithyroid peroxidase antibody positivity only, 10 with positive TSH receptor antibody (TRAb), and 1 of uncertain etiology. Bioassay confirmed both stimulating and blocking TRAb in a subset of fluctuating GD cases. CONCLUSIONS: Contrary to published literature, we recorded frequent occurrence of GD that required definitive or prolonged ATD treatment. Furthermore, fluctuating thyroid status in GD and unexpectedly high frequency of TRAb-positive hypothyroidism suggested changing activity of TRAb in this clinical context; we have documented the existence of both blocking and stimulating TRAb in these patients.
29878256	Alemtuzumab	Thyroiditis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Alemtuzumab-Induced Thyroid Dysfunction Exhibits Distinctive Clinical and Immunological Features.	CONTEXT: Alemtuzumab, a highly effective treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS), predisposes to Graves disease (GD), with a reportedly indolent course. OBJECTIVE: To determine the type, frequency, and course of thyroid dysfunction (TD) in a cohort of alemtuzumab-treated patients with MS in the United Kingdom. DESIGN: Case records of alemtuzumab-treated patients who developed TD were reviewed. RESULTS: A total of 41.1% (102 out of 248; 80 female and 22 male) of patients developed TD, principally GD (71.6%). Median onset was 17 months (range 2 to 107) following the last dose, with the majority (89%) within 3 years. Follow-up data (range 6 to 251 months) were available in 71 case subjects, of whom 52 (73.2%) developed GD: 10 of these (19.2%) had fluctuating TD. All 52 patients with GD commenced antithyroid drugs (ATDs): 3 required radioiodine (RAI) due to ATD side effects, and drug therapy is ongoing in 2; of those who completed a course, 16 are in remission, 1 developed spontaneous hypothyroidism, and 30 (64%) required definitive or long-term treatment (RAI, n = 17; thyroidectomy, n = 5; and long-term ATDs, n = 8). Three cases of thyroiditis and 16 cases of hypothyroidism were documented: 5 with antithyroid peroxidase antibody positivity only, 10 with positive TSH receptor antibody (TRAb), and 1 of uncertain etiology. Bioassay confirmed both stimulating and blocking TRAb in a subset of fluctuating GD cases. CONCLUSIONS: Contrary to published literature, we recorded frequent occurrence of GD that required definitive or prolonged ATD treatment. Furthermore, fluctuating thyroid status in GD and unexpectedly high frequency of TRAb-positive hypothyroidism suggested changing activity of TRAb in this clinical context; we have documented the existence of both blocking and stimulating TRAb in these patients.
29803963	Quetiapine Fumarate	Hyponatremia	1	0	0	0		Hyponatremia secondary to SIADH in a schizophrenic patient treated with Quetiapine.	
29783133	Donepezil	Dystonia	1	0	0	0		Recurrent truncal dystonia (Pisa syndrome) due to donepezil - A case report.	
29486725	Lansoprazole	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	1	1	1.0	Immune checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab)-associated kidney injury and the importance of recognizing concomitant medications known to cause acute tubulointerstitial nephritis: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) has been increasingly recognized as an important manifestation of kidney injury associated with the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4). While the exact pathophysiology remains unknown, corticosteroids are the mainstay of management. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 67-year-old man with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer who developed kidney injury during treatment with the anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab. A kidney biopsy showed ATIN without granuloma formation. Considering their mechanism of action, immune checkpoint inhibitors can alter immunological tolerance to concomitant drugs that have been safely used for a long time. For more than 4 years before the initiation of nivolumab therapy, the patient had been receiving the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole, known to cause drug-induced ATIN, without significant adverse events including kidney injury. He showed rapid improvement in kidney function in 3 days (creatinine decreased from 2.74 to 1.82 mg/dl) on discontinuation of lansoprazole. He then received 500 mg intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 days followed by 1 mg/kg/day oral prednisolone and his creatinine levels eventually stabilized around 1.7 mg/dl. Drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test (DLST) for lansoprazole was positive. CONCLUSIONS: The rapid improvement of kidney function after discontinuation and DLST positivity indicate that lansoprazole contributed to the development of ATIN during nivolumab therapy. Considering the time course, it is plausible that nivolumab altered the long-lasting immunological tolerance against lansoprazole in this patient. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of DLST positivity for a drug that had been used safely before the initiation of an immune checkpoint inhibitor. Although corticosteroid therapy is recommended, the recognition and discontinuation of concomitant drugs, especially those known to induce ATIN, is necessary for the management of kidney injury associated with anti-PD-1 therapy.
29486725	Lansoprazole	Nephritis, Interstitial	1	1	1	1	1.0	Immune checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab)-associated kidney injury and the importance of recognizing concomitant medications known to cause acute tubulointerstitial nephritis: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) has been increasingly recognized as an important manifestation of kidney injury associated with the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4). While the exact pathophysiology remains unknown, corticosteroids are the mainstay of management. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a 67-year-old man with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer who developed kidney injury during treatment with the anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab. A kidney biopsy showed ATIN without granuloma formation. Considering their mechanism of action, immune checkpoint inhibitors can alter immunological tolerance to concomitant drugs that have been safely used for a long time. For more than 4 years before the initiation of nivolumab therapy, the patient had been receiving the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole, known to cause drug-induced ATIN, without significant adverse events including kidney injury. He showed rapid improvement in kidney function in 3 days (creatinine decreased from 2.74 to 1.82 mg/dl) on discontinuation of lansoprazole. He then received 500 mg intravenous methylprednisolone for 3 days followed by 1 mg/kg/day oral prednisolone and his creatinine levels eventually stabilized around 1.7 mg/dl. Drug-induced lymphocyte stimulation test (DLST) for lansoprazole was positive. CONCLUSIONS: The rapid improvement of kidney function after discontinuation and DLST positivity indicate that lansoprazole contributed to the development of ATIN during nivolumab therapy. Considering the time course, it is plausible that nivolumab altered the long-lasting immunological tolerance against lansoprazole in this patient. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of DLST positivity for a drug that had been used safely before the initiation of an immune checkpoint inhibitor. Although corticosteroid therapy is recommended, the recognition and discontinuation of concomitant drugs, especially those known to induce ATIN, is necessary for the management of kidney injury associated with anti-PD-1 therapy.
30848753	Amphotericin B	Immune Reconstitution Inflammatory Syndrome	1	0	0	0		[Cerebral cryptococcosis and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. Case report].	We report a 45-year-old male with AIDS who had a Cryptococcus neoformans central nervous system infection. He was treated with amphotericin B deoxycholate subsequently changed to voriconazole due to systemic toxicity of the former. Plasma levels of voriconazole were insufficient with a standard dose (0.7 mug/mL), therefore, the dose was increased thereafter to reach appropriate levels (4.5 mug/mL). Anti-retroviral therapy was started five weeks after voriconazole initiation with non-interacting drugs and he was discharged after a favorable evolution. He was re-admitted three months later due to seizures; a brain magnetic resonance showed new sub-cortical nodules. After excluding alternative causes and demonstrating fungal eradication, an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) event was suspected and treated with a short course of steroids. His evolution was satisfactory.
30208203	Tadalafil	Hearing Loss, Sensorineural	1	1	1	1	1.0	Sudden hearing loss after cialis (tadalafil) use: A unique case of cochlear hydrops.	We discuss a unique case of sudden sensorineural hearing loss after Cialis (tadalafil) use, a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor, and the implication of ipsilateral cochlear hydrops seen on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We report a case of a 53-year-old male with unilateral low-frequency sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) after ingestion of tadalafil. The SSNHL occurred 1 day after ingestion and was associated with aural fullness and tinnitus. There were no symptoms of vertigo. He received oral prednisone immediately after the onset of hearing loss without improvement. Delayed intravenous contrast-enhanced three-dimensional Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery MRI revealed ipsilateral dilation of the cochlear duct without any hydronic change in the vestibular system. Acetazolamide therapy was initiated, and his symptoms improved. A posttreatment audiogram revealed an increase in threshold of 15 dB. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of cochlear hydrops visualized on imaging after a PDE5 inhibitor induced SSNHL. Tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors have a known association with SSNHL. Despite several proposed mechanisms, there is inconclusive evidence of a causal relationship. Our presented case suggests that cochlear hydrops may be one possible mechanism of PDE5 inhibitor-associated SSNHL. MRI should be considered in the evaluation of such patients who do not respond to oral steroids as initial treatment. Laryngoscope, 2615-2618, 2018.
30208203	Tadalafil	Hearing Loss, Sudden	1	1	1	1	1.0	Sudden hearing loss after cialis (tadalafil) use: A unique case of cochlear hydrops.	We discuss a unique case of sudden sensorineural hearing loss after Cialis (tadalafil) use, a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor, and the implication of ipsilateral cochlear hydrops seen on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We report a case of a 53-year-old male with unilateral low-frequency sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) after ingestion of tadalafil. The SSNHL occurred 1 day after ingestion and was associated with aural fullness and tinnitus. There were no symptoms of vertigo. He received oral prednisone immediately after the onset of hearing loss without improvement. Delayed intravenous contrast-enhanced three-dimensional Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery MRI revealed ipsilateral dilation of the cochlear duct without any hydronic change in the vestibular system. Acetazolamide therapy was initiated, and his symptoms improved. A posttreatment audiogram revealed an increase in threshold of 15 dB. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case of cochlear hydrops visualized on imaging after a PDE5 inhibitor induced SSNHL. Tadalafil and other PDE5 inhibitors have a known association with SSNHL. Despite several proposed mechanisms, there is inconclusive evidence of a causal relationship. Our presented case suggests that cochlear hydrops may be one possible mechanism of PDE5 inhibitor-associated SSNHL. MRI should be considered in the evaluation of such patients who do not respond to oral steroids as initial treatment. Laryngoscope, 2615-2618, 2018.
30154253	Abciximab	Cerebral Hemorrhage	0	0	0	1		Half bolus dose of intravenous abciximab is safe and effective in the setting of acute stroke endovascular treatment.	BACKGROUND: A stent is often necessary for the treatment of stroke. In such cases,it is essential for the patient to have antiplatelet therapy. There are several methods of antiaggregation, such as oral loading doses of aspirin and clopidogrel, intravenous aspirin, or intravenous glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, such as abciximab. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of symptomatic intracerebral hematoma (sICH) associated with our antiplatelet protocol: intravenous abciximab bolus at half the dose (0125 mg/kg) at the time of the stenting procedure; oral aspirin (150 mg) and clopidogrel (75 mg) daily added the next day after CT shows no significant hematoma. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective review of our database of endovascular management of large acute vessel occlusion treated with intravenous abciximab between January 2015 and March 2018. Demographics data, material, drugs, and complications were registered. Fisher tests were used to compare the incidence of sICH in the literature where abciximab 0.25 mg/kg plus maintenance doses are often administrated. RESULTS: Intravenous abciximab was administered to 99 patients. No sICH was observed. According to the European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study Scale, there were 8 cases of hemorrhagic infarction 1, 5 cases of hemorrhagic infarction 2, 4 cases of parenchymal hemorrhage 1, and no cases of parenchymal hemorrhage 2. A comparison between sICH with conventional antiplatelet doses based on the literature showed a statistically significant difference favoring our protocol. CONCLUSION: In the endovascular treatment of acute ischemic stroke, a bolus dose of 0125 mg/kg of abciximab with no maintenance doses, followed by 150 mg of aspirin and 75 mg of clopidogrel orally the next day, is safe and effective.
30133797	Vitamin E	Foreign-Body Reaction	1	0	0	0		Management of complications of vitamin E injections into the face.	
29447991	Aripiprazole	Catatonia	1	0	1	1		Severe extrapyramidal syndrome presenting as catatonia: A rare case report.	
30817601	Clopidogrel	Cerebral Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cerebral microbleeds in patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease taking aspirin or clopidogrel.	Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) may be markers of intracerebral bleeding risk in patients receiving antithrombotic drugs. This study aimed to analyze CMBs and white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) in patients taking aspirin or clopidogrel.This retrospective study included patients with ischemic cardiovascular disease administered 75 mg/day aspirin (n = 150) or clopidogrel (n = 150, matched for age and gender) for >1 year (Affiliated Hospital of Inner Mongolia Medical University, China, from July, 2010 to July, 2015). Patients underwent T2-weighted imaging, T1-weighted imaging, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and enhanced T2*-weighted angiography (ESWAN) imaging (3.0-Tesla scanner). Baseline vascular risk factors for CMBs and macroscopic bleeding (MB) were evaluated using univariate and multivariate analyses.The aspirin and clopidogrel groups did not differ significantly in baseline characteristics or prevalences of CMBs or MB. The odds of MB were higher in patients with CMBs than in patients without CMBs in both the aspirin (odds ratio, 95% confidence interval: 4.09, 1.93-8.68; P < .001) and clopidogrel (6.42, 2.83-14.57; P < .001) groups. The odds of WMHs were also higher in patients with CMBs in both the aspirin (3.28, 1.60-6.71; P = .001) and clopidogrel (4.09, 1.91-8.75; P < .001) groups. Patients receiving treatment for >5 years showed elevated risk of CMBs in the aspirin (0.17; 0.09-0.36; P < .001) and clopidogrel (0.15, 0.07-0.33; P < .001) groups as well as higher odds of MB in the aspirin (0.34, 0.16-0.71; P = .004) and clopidogrel (0.37, 0.17-0.80; P = .010) groups.The WMHs and MB were associated with CMBs in patients taking aspirin or clopidogrel for >1 year, and long-term use increased the risks of CMB and bleeding.
30817601	Clopidogrel	Myocardial Ischemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cerebral microbleeds in patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease taking aspirin or clopidogrel.	Cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) may be markers of intracerebral bleeding risk in patients receiving antithrombotic drugs. This study aimed to analyze CMBs and white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) in patients taking aspirin or clopidogrel.This retrospective study included patients with ischemic cardiovascular disease administered 75 mg/day aspirin (n = 150) or clopidogrel (n = 150, matched for age and gender) for >1 year (Affiliated Hospital of Inner Mongolia Medical University, China, from July, 2010 to July, 2015). Patients underwent T2-weighted imaging, T1-weighted imaging, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and enhanced T2*-weighted angiography (ESWAN) imaging (3.0-Tesla scanner). Baseline vascular risk factors for CMBs and macroscopic bleeding (MB) were evaluated using univariate and multivariate analyses.The aspirin and clopidogrel groups did not differ significantly in baseline characteristics or prevalences of CMBs or MB. The odds of MB were higher in patients with CMBs than in patients without CMBs in both the aspirin (odds ratio, 95% confidence interval: 4.09, 1.93-8.68; P < .001) and clopidogrel (6.42, 2.83-14.57; P < .001) groups. The odds of WMHs were also higher in patients with CMBs in both the aspirin (3.28, 1.60-6.71; P = .001) and clopidogrel (4.09, 1.91-8.75; P < .001) groups. Patients receiving treatment for >5 years showed elevated risk of CMBs in the aspirin (0.17; 0.09-0.36; P < .001) and clopidogrel (0.15, 0.07-0.33; P < .001) groups as well as higher odds of MB in the aspirin (0.34, 0.16-0.71; P = .004) and clopidogrel (0.37, 0.17-0.80; P = .010) groups.The WMHs and MB were associated with CMBs in patients taking aspirin or clopidogrel for >1 year, and long-term use increased the risks of CMB and bleeding.
30762768	Nicorandil	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	0	1.0	Intracoronary administration of nicorandil-induced cardiac arrest during primary percutaneous coronary intervention: A case report.	RATIONALE: Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) is the most effective therapy for patients with an acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). However, up to half of STEMI patients suffer from coronary microvascular dysfunction, presenting as the slow flow or no-reflow phenomenon. PATIENTS CONCERNS: A 78-year-old man was admitted to the chest pain center with sudden chest pain and tightness for about an hour. DIAGNOSES: Electrocardiography demonstrated ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, aVF, and third-degree atrioventricular block. Coronary angiography showed acute total occlusion in the distal right coronary artery (RCA). INTERVENTIONS: PPCI was performed on the patient. After thrombus aspiration, a stent was placed in the distal RCA. As coronary angiography showed TIMI grade 2 flow in RCA, 6 mg nicorandil was intracoronary administrated in twice. Immediately, cardiac arrest occurred and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was performed. OUTCOMES: The patient survived and had a good outcome during follow-up for >6 months. LESSONS: Up to now, there has been no case report of cardiac arrest caused by nicorandil. Although intracoronary nicorandil is one of the most commonly used methods to improve coronary flow, much more attention should be paid to side effects of nicorandil.
30761830	Tenofovir	Hypocalcemia	0	0	0	0		Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate may not cause renal and bone toxicity in chronic hepatitis B patients: a retrospective cross-sectional study.	
30372591	Trastuzumab	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	The incidence of atrial fibrillation with trastuzumab treatment: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	AIM: Cases of cardiotoxicity related to trastuzumab have been reported. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated the risk of atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients of breast cancer treated with trastuzumab. METHODS: PubMed and EMBASE were searched until September 2017 for articles that investigated AF incidence in patients receiving trastuzumab for breast cancer. RESULTS: A total of 15 studies involving 8124 patients treated with trastuzumab were included. Of the total cohort, 37 patients suffered from AF, giving rise to an incidence of 1.22% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.56%-2.68%). No significant difference in the incidence of AF was found between ado-trastuzumab emtansine (0.95%, 95% CI: 0.36%-2.52%) and trastuzumab groups (1.32%, 95% CI: 0.52%-3.34%), trastuzumab combined with other antineoplastic agents (2.09%, 95% CI: 1.16%-3.73%) and trastuzumab alone (0.36%, 95% CI: 0.04%-3.08%), prior exposure to anthracyclines (1.72%, 95% CI: 0.75%-3.88%) and no prior exposure (1.03%, 95% CI: 0.30%-3.51%), and radiotherapy (1.26%, 95% CI: 0.68%-2.33%) vs. no radiotherapy (1.21%, 95% CI: 0.35%-4.14%). CONCLUSIONS: Atrial fibrillation incidence in breast cancer patients receiving trastuzumab was around 1.2%. It was not influenced by the formulation of trastuzumab, the additional use of neoplastic agents, anthracycline exposure status, or concurrent radiotherapy.
30237468	Titanium	Autism Spectrum Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	Prenatal exposure to TiO(2) nanoparticles in mice causes behavioral deficits with relevance to autism spectrum disorder and beyond.	Environmental factors are involved in the etiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and may contribute to the raise in its incidence rate. It is currently unknown whether the increasing use of nanoparticles such as titanium dioxide (TiO(2) NPs) in consumer products and biomedical applications may play a role in these associations. While nano-sized TiO(2) is generally regarded as safe and non-toxic, excessive exposure to TiO(2) NPs may be associated with negative health consequences especially when occurring during sensitive developmental periods. To test if prenatal exposure to TiO(2) NPs alters fetal development and behavioral functions relevant to ASD, C57Bl6/N dams were subjected to a single intravenous injection of a low (100 microg) or high (1000 microg) dose of TiO(2) NPs or vehicle solution on gestation day 9. ASD-related behavioral functions were assessed in the offspring using paradigms that index murine versions of ASD symptoms. Maternal exposure to TiO(2) NPs led to subtle and dose-dependent impairments in neonatal vocal communication and juvenile sociability, as well as a dose-dependent increase in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex of both sexes. These behavioral alterations emerged in the absence of pregnancy complications. Prenatal exposure to TiO(2) NPs did not cause overt fetal malformations or changes in pregnancy outcomes, nor did it affect postnatal growth of the offspring. Taken together, our study provides a first set of preliminary data suggesting that prenatal exposure to nano-sized TiO(2) can induce behavioral deficits relevant to ASD and related neurodevelopmental disorders without inducing major changes in physiological development. If extended further, our preclinical findings may provide an incentive for epidemiological studies examining the role of prenatal TiO(2) NPs exposure in the etiology of ASD and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
30237468	Titanium	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Prenatal exposure to TiO(2) nanoparticles in mice causes behavioral deficits with relevance to autism spectrum disorder and beyond.	Environmental factors are involved in the etiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and may contribute to the raise in its incidence rate. It is currently unknown whether the increasing use of nanoparticles such as titanium dioxide (TiO(2) NPs) in consumer products and biomedical applications may play a role in these associations. While nano-sized TiO(2) is generally regarded as safe and non-toxic, excessive exposure to TiO(2) NPs may be associated with negative health consequences especially when occurring during sensitive developmental periods. To test if prenatal exposure to TiO(2) NPs alters fetal development and behavioral functions relevant to ASD, C57Bl6/N dams were subjected to a single intravenous injection of a low (100 microg) or high (1000 microg) dose of TiO(2) NPs or vehicle solution on gestation day 9. ASD-related behavioral functions were assessed in the offspring using paradigms that index murine versions of ASD symptoms. Maternal exposure to TiO(2) NPs led to subtle and dose-dependent impairments in neonatal vocal communication and juvenile sociability, as well as a dose-dependent increase in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex of both sexes. These behavioral alterations emerged in the absence of pregnancy complications. Prenatal exposure to TiO(2) NPs did not cause overt fetal malformations or changes in pregnancy outcomes, nor did it affect postnatal growth of the offspring. Taken together, our study provides a first set of preliminary data suggesting that prenatal exposure to nano-sized TiO(2) can induce behavioral deficits relevant to ASD and related neurodevelopmental disorders without inducing major changes in physiological development. If extended further, our preclinical findings may provide an incentive for epidemiological studies examining the role of prenatal TiO(2) NPs exposure in the etiology of ASD and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
30134505	Fosfomycin	Nephritis, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		Biopsy-proven acute interstitial nephritis due to fosfomycin in a child.	
30133974	Codeine	Renal Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Renal recovery in a dialysis-dependent patient with end-stage kidney disease secondary to analgesic nephropathy.	
30083815	Tranylcypromine	Heart Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Myocardial Injury from Tranylcypromine-Induced Hypertensive Crisis Secondary to Excessive Tyramine Intake.	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are known to cause hypertensive crisis when combined with intake of tyramine, classically found in cheese. We present a case of MAOI-induced hypertensive crisis leading to significant troponin release after soft cheese intake. A 51-year-old lady presented with left-sided chest pain, palpitations and headache in the context of significant hypertension after eating soft cheese. She had a similar episode 2 month prior to this presentation, which resulted in a diagnosis of non-ST elevation myocardial infarction after a troponin of 2768 ng/L (Ref < 17 ng/L) with normal cardiac investigations and CT pulmonary angiogram. She was known to be on tranylcypromine for bipolar depression. Subsequent cardiac investigations were normal, as were those for phaeochromocytoma and Conn's disease. Tranylcypromine is a non-selective irreversible MAOI used in refractory depression and bipolar disorder. MAOIs are known to cause hypertensive crisis when combined with soft cheese due to unopposed release of catecholamines from reduced tyramine metabolisation, leading to injury and possible myonecrosis. Three previous case reports have demonstrated either creatinine kinase or troponin rise with myocardial infarction due to this hypertensive crisis and our case is the fourth with significant hypertension and cardiac biomarker rise related to MAOI, specifically tranylcypromine.
30083815	Tyramine	Heart Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Myocardial Injury from Tranylcypromine-Induced Hypertensive Crisis Secondary to Excessive Tyramine Intake.	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are known to cause hypertensive crisis when combined with intake of tyramine, classically found in cheese. We present a case of MAOI-induced hypertensive crisis leading to significant troponin release after soft cheese intake. A 51-year-old lady presented with left-sided chest pain, palpitations and headache in the context of significant hypertension after eating soft cheese. She had a similar episode 2 month prior to this presentation, which resulted in a diagnosis of non-ST elevation myocardial infarction after a troponin of 2768 ng/L (Ref < 17 ng/L) with normal cardiac investigations and CT pulmonary angiogram. She was known to be on tranylcypromine for bipolar depression. Subsequent cardiac investigations were normal, as were those for phaeochromocytoma and Conn's disease. Tranylcypromine is a non-selective irreversible MAOI used in refractory depression and bipolar disorder. MAOIs are known to cause hypertensive crisis when combined with soft cheese due to unopposed release of catecholamines from reduced tyramine metabolisation, leading to injury and possible myonecrosis. Three previous case reports have demonstrated either creatinine kinase or troponin rise with myocardial infarction due to this hypertensive crisis and our case is the fourth with significant hypertension and cardiac biomarker rise related to MAOI, specifically tranylcypromine.
29948594	Bisoprolol	Atrioventricular Block	1	1	0	0	1.0	Complete Atrioventricular Block in an Elderly Patient Treated with Low-Dose Lacosamide.	Lacosamide, one of the last antiepileptic drugs marketed, can cause extension of PR interval. Precautions are recommended when used in elderly and with other drugs extending PR interval. Cases of severe third-degree atrioventricular block have been reported only in post-marketing case reports when used at high-doses and remain rare. We report the case of an 88-year-old woman treated with bisoprolol, who experienced a complete atrioventricular block after initiation of lacosamide for epilepsy associated with neurodegenerative disease. This dramatic event required a pacemaker implementation. Not being dose-dependent (initiation dosage used), it seemed partially explained by drug-drug interaction with bisoprolol.
29948594	Lacosamide	Atrioventricular Block	1	1	0	0	1.0	Complete Atrioventricular Block in an Elderly Patient Treated with Low-Dose Lacosamide.	Lacosamide, one of the last antiepileptic drugs marketed, can cause extension of PR interval. Precautions are recommended when used in elderly and with other drugs extending PR interval. Cases of severe third-degree atrioventricular block have been reported only in post-marketing case reports when used at high-doses and remain rare. We report the case of an 88-year-old woman treated with bisoprolol, who experienced a complete atrioventricular block after initiation of lacosamide for epilepsy associated with neurodegenerative disease. This dramatic event required a pacemaker implementation. Not being dose-dependent (initiation dosage used), it seemed partially explained by drug-drug interaction with bisoprolol.
29889678	Nivolumab	Guillain-Barre Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Nivolumab-Associated Guillain-Barre Syndrome in a Patient With Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer.	
29739318	Pentoxifylline	Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Safety of cilostazol in peripheral artery disease: a cohort from a primary healthcare electronic database.	BACKGROUND: Cilostazol has been associated with spontaneous reports of cardiovascular adverse events and serious bleeding. The objective of this study is to determine the relative risk of cardiovascular adverse events or haemorrhages in patients with peripheral artery disease treated with cilostazol in comparison to pentoxifylline users. METHODS: Population-based cohort study including all individuals older than 40 who initiated cilostazol or pentoxifylline during 2009-2011 in SIDIAP database. The two treatment groups were matched through propensity score (PS). RESULTS: Nine thousand one hundred twenty-nine patients met inclusion criteria and after PS matching, there were 2905 patients in each group. 76% of patients were men, with similar mean ages in both groups (68.8 for cilostazol and 69.4 for pentoxifylline). There were no differences in bleeding, cerebrovascular and cardiovascular events between both groups. CONCLUSIONS: Patients treated with cilostazol were different from those treated with pentoxifylline at baseline, so they were matched through PS. We did not find differences between treatment groups in the incidence of bleeding or cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. Cilostazol should be used with precaution in elderly polymedicated patients.
29720397	Tamoxifen	Torsades de Pointes	1	1	0	0	0.0	Increased long QT and torsade de pointes reporting on tamoxifen compared with aromatase inhibitors.	OBJECTIVE: A prolonged QTc (LQT) is a surrogate for the risk of torsade de pointes (TdP). QTc interval duration is influenced by sex hormones: oestradiol prolongs and testosterone shortens QTc. Drugs used in the treatment of breast cancer have divergent effects on hormonal status. METHODS: We performed a disproportionality analysis using the European database of suspected adverse drug reaction (ADR) reports to evaluate the reporting OR (ROR chi(2)) of LQT, TdP and ventricular arrhythmias associated with selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs: tamoxifen and toremifene) as opposed to aromatase inhibitors (AIs: anastrozole, exemestane and letrozole). When the proportion of an ADR is greater in patients exposed to a drug (SERMs) compared with patients exposed to control drug (AIs), this suggests an association between the specific drug and the reaction and is a potential signal for safety. Clinical and demographic characterisation of patients with SERMs-induced LQT and ventricular arrhythmias was performed. RESULTS: SERMs were associated with higher proportion of LQT reports versus AIs (26/8318 vs 11/14851, ROR: 4.2 (2.11-8.55), p<0.001). SERMs were also associated with higher proportion of TdP and ventricular arrhythmia reports versus AIs (6/8318 vs 2/14851, ROR: 5.4 (1.29-26.15), p:0.02; 16/8318 vs 12/14851, ROR: 2.38 (1.15-4.94), p:0.02, respectively). Mortality was 38% in patients presenting ventricular arrhythmias associated with SERMs. CONCLUSIONS: SERMs are associated with more reports of drug-induced LQT, TdP and ventricular arrhythmias compared with AIs. This finding is consistent with oestradiol-like properties of SERMs on the heart as opposed to effects of oestrogen deprivation and testosterone increase induced by AIs. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03259711.
29720244	Taurine	Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Administration of taurolidine-citrate lock solution for prevention of central venous catheter infection in adult neutropenic haematological patients: a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial (TAURCAT).	BACKGROUND: Catheter-related bloodstream infection (CRBSI) is one of the most frequent complications in patients with cancer who have central venous catheters (CVCs) implanted and is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Taurolidine is a non-antibiotic agent with broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity, which has been used as a lock solution to prevent CRBSI in some settings. However, little is known about its usefulness in high-risk adult neutropenic patients with cancer. This prospective randomised clinical trial aims to test the hypothesis that taurolidine-citrate lock solution is more effective than placebo for preventing catheter infection in neutropenic haematological patients. METHODS: This study is a prospective, multicentre, randomised, double-blinded, parallel, superiority, placebo-controlled trial. Patients with haematological cancer who are expected to develop prolonged neutropenia (> 7 days) and who have a non-tunnelled CVC implanted will be randomised to receive prophylactic taurolidine-citrate-heparin solution using a lock technique (study group) or heparin alone (placebo group). The primary endpoint will be bacterial colonisation of the CVC hubs. The secondary endpoints will be the incidence of CRBSI, CVC removal, adverse events, and 30-day case-fatality rate. DISCUSSION: The lock technique is a preventive strategy that inhibits bacterial colonisation in the catheter hubs, which is the initial step of endoluminal catheter colonisation and the development of infection. Taurolidine is a nontoxic agent that does not develop antibiotic resistance because it acts as an antiseptic rather than an antibiotic. Taurolidine has shown controversial results in the few trials conducted in cancer patients. These studies have important limitations due to the lack of data on adult and/or high-risk neutropenic patients, the type of catheters studied (tunnelled or ports), and the lack of information regarding the intervention (e.g. dwelling of the solution, time, and periodicity of the lock technique). If our hypothesis is proven, the study could provide important solid evidence on the potential usefulness of this preventive procedure in a population at high risk of CRBSI, in whom this complication may significantly impair patient outcome. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN, ISRCTN47102251 . Registered on 9 September 2015.
29689697	Imipramine	Prostatic Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Prostate cancer and antidepressants: A nationwide population-based nested case-control study.	BACKGROUND: We aimed to evaluate the association between antidepressant and prostate cancer by comparing exposures to antidepressants between those with and without prostate cancer. METHODS: A nationwide insurance claims database was used to identify our case subjects. Age- and gender-matched controls were selected at a 1:5 ratio. Conditional logistic regression model was used. RESULTS: 11,515 patients with prostate cancer were identified and matched with 55,373 controls. No increased associations between prostate cancer and most classes of antidepressants were found. However, a positive association with adjusted odds ratios ranged from 1.20 to 1.35 was noted in different doses of imipramine. Nevertheless, this association became statistically insignificant at higher cumulative doses. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that there is no association between mechanistically dissimilar antidepressants and increased hazard for prostate cancer.
29616409	Imatinib Mesylate	Heart Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cardiotoxicity in Hematological Diseases: Are the Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors Imatinib and Nilotinib Safe?	Chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity is a growing concern. The cardiotoxic impact of new drugs such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors is unknown, especially the ones used for chronic myeloid leukemia. We aim to evaluate nilotinib- and imatinib-induced cardiotoxicity. Single-center prospective study of consecutive patients with chronic myeloid leukemia treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors was conducted during 2015. Patients underwent an initial clinical, laboratorial and echocardiographic evaluation, repeated after 1 year. Eleven patients were included [60.0 (11) years, 63.6% of males; seven patients treated with imatinib and four with nilotinib]. After 1 year of follow-up, all patients remained in functional NYHA class I, with a similar Minnesota quality of life score. Also there was no difference in the biomarkers evaluated (cystatin-C and NT-proBNP). Likewise, no modification in systolic or diastolic function evaluated by echocardiography was observed. All patients presented normal values of longitudinal, circumferential and radial strain in the baseline study, without changes during follow-up. In addition, there were no differences between the two tyrosine kinase inhibitors used, considering all the aforementioned variables. No clinical, laboratory or echocardiographic evidence of nilotinib- and imatinib-induced cardiotoxicity was observed. However, these results should be confirmed in multicenter studies given the low incidence of chronic myeloid leukemia.
29505491	Zoledronic Acid	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Severe Acute Kidney Injury After Single-Dose Injection of Zoledronic Acid in an Elderly Patient.	
29376475	Interleukin-6	Skin Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Non-melanoma skin cancer as a possible adverse event due to anti-interleukin-6 treatment.	
28925067	Natalizumab	Nevus, Pigmented	1	0	0	0		Melanoma, eruptive naevi and natalizumab: Causal relation or coincidence?	
28925067	Natalizumab	Skin Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Melanoma, eruptive naevi and natalizumab: Causal relation or coincidence?	
28802086	Oxymorphone	Kidney Failure, Chronic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute kidney injury is common with intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone and delayed renal recovery rates are associated with increased KDIGO staging.	AIM: Prescription opioid abuse poses a serious problem in the United States, representing 615 per 100 000 deaths annually. Extended-release oxymorphone (Opana-ER) is an oral opioid pain medication that has recently been found to cause thrombotic microangiopathy when intravenously abused. In this retrospective study, we attempted to determine the prevalence and outcomes of acute kidney injury (AKI) among patients intravenously abusing extended-release oral oxymorphone. METHODS: A query of electronic medical records for 'drug abuse' at an academic medical centre during January 2012 to December 2015 was performed and yielded 2350 patients. Patients were further identified by documented intravenous abuse of extended-release oxymorphone. Patients were stratified based on multiple renal indices and outcomes. Potential confounders were also identified. RESULTS: One hundred and sixty-five patients were found to have a documented history of intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone. Prevalence of AKI in this population was a 47.8%. KDIGO stage-I patients consisted of 17.8% of patients with AKI, 40.5% were classified as KDIGO stage-II AKI, and 41.8% were classified as KDIGO stage-III AKI. Among patients with AKI, average age was found to be 37.5 years, 59.4% experienced renal recovery, 56.9% required intensive care unit admission, 13.9% progressed to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and 7.6% expired during admission. CONCLUSION: Clinicians should be educated to help recognize intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone and its associated effects. Our data suggests AKI is common in these patients; higher KDIGO staging appears to be associated with slower rates of renal recovery, increased comorbidities and progression to both CKD and ESRD.
28802086	Oxymorphone	Renal Insufficiency, Chronic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute kidney injury is common with intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone and delayed renal recovery rates are associated with increased KDIGO staging.	AIM: Prescription opioid abuse poses a serious problem in the United States, representing 615 per 100 000 deaths annually. Extended-release oxymorphone (Opana-ER) is an oral opioid pain medication that has recently been found to cause thrombotic microangiopathy when intravenously abused. In this retrospective study, we attempted to determine the prevalence and outcomes of acute kidney injury (AKI) among patients intravenously abusing extended-release oral oxymorphone. METHODS: A query of electronic medical records for 'drug abuse' at an academic medical centre during January 2012 to December 2015 was performed and yielded 2350 patients. Patients were further identified by documented intravenous abuse of extended-release oxymorphone. Patients were stratified based on multiple renal indices and outcomes. Potential confounders were also identified. RESULTS: One hundred and sixty-five patients were found to have a documented history of intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone. Prevalence of AKI in this population was a 47.8%. KDIGO stage-I patients consisted of 17.8% of patients with AKI, 40.5% were classified as KDIGO stage-II AKI, and 41.8% were classified as KDIGO stage-III AKI. Among patients with AKI, average age was found to be 37.5 years, 59.4% experienced renal recovery, 56.9% required intensive care unit admission, 13.9% progressed to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and 7.6% expired during admission. CONCLUSION: Clinicians should be educated to help recognize intravenous abuse of extended-release oral oxymorphone and its associated effects. Our data suggests AKI is common in these patients; higher KDIGO staging appears to be associated with slower rates of renal recovery, increased comorbidities and progression to both CKD and ESRD.
28166163	Deoxycholic Acid	Abscess	1	0	0	0		Submental Abscess After Deoxycholic Acid Injection.	
30776912	Palmitic Acid	Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Clinopodium chinense Attenuates Palmitic Acid-Induced Vascular Endothelial Inflammation and Insulin Resistance through TLR4-Mediated NF- kappa B and MAPK Pathways.	Elevated palmitic acid (PA) levels are associated with the development of inflammation, insulin resistance (IR) and endothelial dysfunction. Clinopodium chinense (Benth.) O. Kuntze has been shown to lower blood glucose and attenuate high glucose-induced vascular endothelial cells injury. In the present study we investigated the effects of ethyl acetate extract of C. chinense (CCE) on PA-induced inflammation and IR in the vascular endothelium and its molecular mechanism. We found that CCE significantly inhibited PA-induced toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Consequently, this led to the inhibition of the following downstream adapted proteins myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88, Toll/interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon- beta and TNF receptor-associated factor 6. Moreover, CCE inhibited the phosphorylation of Ikappa B kinase beta , nuclear factor kappa-B (NF- kappa B), c-Jun N-terminal kinase, extracellular regulated protein kinases, p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and subsequently suppressed the release of tumor necrosis factor- alpha , interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta ) and IL-6. CCE also inhibited IRS-1 serine phosphorylation and ameliorated insulin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of IRS-1. Moreover, CCE restored serine/threonine kinase and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activation and thus increased insulin-mediated nitric oxide (NO) production in PA-treated HUVECs. This led to reverse insulin mediated endothelium-dependent relaxation, eNOS phosphorylation and NO production in PA-treated rat thoracic aortas. These results suggest that CCE can significantly inhibit the inflammatory response and alleviate impaired insulin signaling in the vascular endothelium by suppressing TLR4-mediated NF- kappa B and MAPK pathways. Therefore, CCE can be considered as a potential therapeutic candidate for endothelial dysfunction associated with IR and diabetes.
30599396	Oxcarbazepine	Skin Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association between HLA-A*3201 allele and oxcarbazepine-induced cutaneous adverse reactions in Eastern Han Chinese population.	PURPOSE: To determine genetic associations between oxcarbazepine (OXC)-induced cutaneous adverse drug reactions (cADRs) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) variants in the Eastern Han Chinese population. METHODS: A total of 120 patients were enrolled in this study, including 30 subjects with OXC-induced cADRs (case group) and 90 OXC-tolerant patients (control group). High-resolution HLA genotyping was conducted for HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and HLA-DRB1, and allele frequencies were compared. RESULTS: No patient carried the HLA-B *1502 allele in the case group, the frequency of HLA-B *1502 allele in the control group was 6.1%. HLA-A*3201 allele was detected in 13.3% of 30 patients with OXC-induced cADRs (4/30) and 0% of 90 OXC-tolerant patients (0/90). The difference in HLA-A*3201 frequency between the two groups was statistically significant [P = 0.004, odds ratio (OR) = 15.877, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.817-138.720]. CONCLUSIONS: Eastern Han Chinese patients with the HLA-A*3201 allele may be more susceptible to OXC-induced cADRs, while the HLA-B*1502 allele is not correlated with it. The precise association between HLA alleles and OXC-induced cADRs warrants further study.
30116943	Afatinib	Exanthema	0	0	0	0		Multi-disciplinary proactive follow-up algorithm for patients with advanced NSCLC receiving afatinib.	PURPOSE: Afatinib is a standard first-line therapy for advanced EGFR-positive NSCLC. We implemented a pharmacist-led proactive follow-up algorithm to identify and manage early afatinib-related adverse events (AEs). METHODS: We conducted a retrospective chart review of all patients treated with afatinib after implementation of the algorithm at the Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre (Toronto, ON, Canada) from April 1, 2015 to July 31, 2016. Our in-house algorithm involved consultations in person and proactive pharmacist-led callbacks on days 5, 10, and 17. All AEs were graded and documented in real time and management based on toxicity grade was standardized. This study evaluated the impact of our algorithm on real-world AEs. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Thirty-three patients were identified and reviewed. Median follow-up was 248 days. All patients experienced at least one drug-related AE; 18.2% were grade 3/4. The most common AEs were diarrhea 87.9%, rash 81.8%, stomatitis 57.6%, and paronychia 45.5%. Median dose of afatinib was 40 mg daily; 51.5% of patients had >/= 1 dose reduction and 6.3% discontinued afatinib due to AEs. Proactive calls by the pharmacist identified 36.5% of all drug-related AEs, 33.3% of grade 3/4 AEs, 58.1% of first drug-related AEs and identified two patients that were non-compliant. Only 3.2% of AEs were identified by an emergency room/urgent clinic visit. CONCLUSIONS: This proactive multi-disciplinary AE management algorithm resulted in a low rate of urgent assessments and discontinuation due to toxicity while maintaining afatinib at ideal dose, thus providing a useful tool for centers prescribing afatinib.
29432852	Manganese	Hyperkinesis	0	1	0	0		Environmental manganese exposure and associations with memory, executive functions, and hyperactivity in Brazilian children.	Manganese (Mn) is an essential element, however high levels of Mn have been associated with lower neuropsychological performance and behavioral problems in children. We investigated the associations between hair Mn concentrations and neuropsychological and behavioral performances among children with long-term exposure to airborne Mn aged between 7 and 12 years. Neuropsychological performance included tests of: verbal memory, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility, verbal fluency, and motor function. We used the Conners Abbreviated Rating Scale for teachers to assess students' behaviors of hyperactivity. Hair manganese (MnH) concentrations in children and exposure to airborne manganese from a ferro-manganese alloy plant were analyzed and correlated with tests scores. Multivariable linear models adjusting for potential confounders showed that elevated levels of MnH were associated with lower performance in verbal memory, as measured by the free recall after interference (beta = - 1.8; 95% CI: - 3.4, - 0.2), which indicates susceptibility to interference, and Delayed Effect (beta = -2.0; 95% CI: -3.7, - 0.2), representing a loss of information over time. Additionally, we found patterns of effect modification by sex in three subtests measuring verbal memory: the free recall after interference score, Interference Effect, and Delayed Effect (all at p < 0.10). Overall, the results suggest that long-term airborne Mn exposure may be associated with lower performance in verbal memory, and hyperactivity behaviors.
28898806	Zolpidem	Somnambulism	1	0	0	0		Benefits of switching to suvorexant for mild primary insomnia when sleepwalking episodes occur during zolpidem treatment.	
28711681	Chlorpheniramine	Bipolar Disorder	1	0	0	0		Chlorpheniramine dependence presenting as mania.	
30848774	Dipyrone	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		[Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or DRESS syndrome. Report of one case].	
30536299	Lamotrigine	Hyponatremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	[The syndrome of inappropriate diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) ending lethal during the use of paliperidon and lamotrigine].	Hyponatremia, as a result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), is well known with the use of nearly all antipsychotics and mood stabilizers. The first symptoms are atypical and are not always mentioned by the patient. However, not recognising the syndrome in due time can be lethal. We describe a 35-year-old woman who died due to lack of recognition of SIADH. The patient, who had a bipolar disorder and was for a long time on a paliperidone depot, developed complaints of nausea, vomiting and thirst after lamotrigine was prescribed. A few days after increasing the dose, she died; no evidence was found of suicide. The SIADH was probably triggered by the use of lamotrigine and paliperidone. Paying sufficient attention to the symptoms that may cause this syndrome, as well as their early recognition, could save lives.
30536299	Lamotrigine	Inappropriate ADH Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	[The syndrome of inappropriate diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) ending lethal during the use of paliperidon and lamotrigine].	Hyponatremia, as a result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), is well known with the use of nearly all antipsychotics and mood stabilizers. The first symptoms are atypical and are not always mentioned by the patient. However, not recognising the syndrome in due time can be lethal. We describe a 35-year-old woman who died due to lack of recognition of SIADH. The patient, who had a bipolar disorder and was for a long time on a paliperidone depot, developed complaints of nausea, vomiting and thirst after lamotrigine was prescribed. A few days after increasing the dose, she died; no evidence was found of suicide. The SIADH was probably triggered by the use of lamotrigine and paliperidone. Paying sufficient attention to the symptoms that may cause this syndrome, as well as their early recognition, could save lives.
30536296	Omeprazole	Mental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Psychotic symptoms as a side-effect of omeprazole].	A 12-year-old girl with no psychiatric history developed psychotic symptoms, including formal thought disorder and delusional ideas after omeprazole was initiated. Given the co-occurrence of omeprazole initiation and the start of these symptoms, omeprazole was discontinued and replaced by ranitidine which led to immediate symptom reduction followed by complete remission. Although the proton pump inhibitor (ppi) omeprazole is considered safe and is commonly prescribed, it can cause rare major psychiatric side-effects. Despite conducting a literature search to uncover a possible causal mechanism to explain these side-effects, no conclusive explanatio was found.
30457649	Bevacizumab	Vitreous Hemorrhage	1	1	0	1	1.0	Bilateral Vitreous Hemorrhage Following Bilateral Intravitreal Injections of Bevacizumab in an Infant With Retinopathy of Prematurity.	Since the publication of BEAT-ROP in 2011, intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) has become increasingly common for the treatment of posterior type 1 retinopathy of prematurity (ROP). However, long-term data on the safety and efficacy of IVB for ROP are lacking. Vitreous hemorrhage following bevacizumab injections have been rarely reported in infants with ROP, and the need for treatment of these hemorrhages remains in question. Here, the authors report a case of bilateral vitreous hemorrhage in a premature infant within 2 weeks of bilateral intravitreal injections of bevacizumab. These hemorrhages resolved without intervention with regression of ROP in both eyes. [Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2018;49:893-896.].
30401463	Etanercept	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Life-threatening hypercalcemia and acute kidney injury induced by etanercept].	Drug-induced sarcoidosis-like disease is a rare, but not exceptional, side effect of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents. The organs most commonly involved are lungs, skin and lymph nodes. Kidney involvement is exceptional. Histology usually reveals non-caseating granulomas. Some of the biological features usually described in sarcoidosis are very infrequent in drug-induced granulomatosis. We report a case of sarcoid-like granulomatosis manifesting as life-threatening hypercalcemia and acute kidney injury in a woman treated with etanercept for a rheumatoid arthritis. Seven days after admission, she developed hypoxemic interstitial pneumonia with negative mycobacterial and fungal analysis. This picture suggested sarcoid-like disease induced by tumor necrosis factor blockers and prompted etanercept cessation. Kidney biopsy performed 30 days after admission revealed significant acute interstitial nephritis and intratubular calcium crystals. Staining for acid-fast bacilli and fungi was negative. Clinical picture improved gradually after etanercept withdrawal and cortisone treatment. Three weeks after admission, serum creatinine and calcium levels were normal. Clinical presentation of sarcoidosis-like disease induced by anti-tumor necrosis factor agents may be extremely variable. Our observation shows that severe, life-threatening hypercalcemia may occur. Renal involvement is very unusual. This case highlights this diagnostic difficulty and the importance of a close clinical monitoring in patients treated with these drugs. Cessation of the anti-tumor necrosis factor agent leads to resolution of this condition in most cases.
30401463	Etanercept	Hypercalcemia	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Life-threatening hypercalcemia and acute kidney injury induced by etanercept].	Drug-induced sarcoidosis-like disease is a rare, but not exceptional, side effect of anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents. The organs most commonly involved are lungs, skin and lymph nodes. Kidney involvement is exceptional. Histology usually reveals non-caseating granulomas. Some of the biological features usually described in sarcoidosis are very infrequent in drug-induced granulomatosis. We report a case of sarcoid-like granulomatosis manifesting as life-threatening hypercalcemia and acute kidney injury in a woman treated with etanercept for a rheumatoid arthritis. Seven days after admission, she developed hypoxemic interstitial pneumonia with negative mycobacterial and fungal analysis. This picture suggested sarcoid-like disease induced by tumor necrosis factor blockers and prompted etanercept cessation. Kidney biopsy performed 30 days after admission revealed significant acute interstitial nephritis and intratubular calcium crystals. Staining for acid-fast bacilli and fungi was negative. Clinical picture improved gradually after etanercept withdrawal and cortisone treatment. Three weeks after admission, serum creatinine and calcium levels were normal. Clinical presentation of sarcoidosis-like disease induced by anti-tumor necrosis factor agents may be extremely variable. Our observation shows that severe, life-threatening hypercalcemia may occur. Renal involvement is very unusual. This case highlights this diagnostic difficulty and the importance of a close clinical monitoring in patients treated with these drugs. Cessation of the anti-tumor necrosis factor agent leads to resolution of this condition in most cases.
30211477	Dexamethasone	Lacrimal Duct Obstruction	0	0	0	0		Punctal stenosis in 6 dogs following the long-term use of topical neomycin-polymyxin B-dexamethasone.	Six dogs were diagnosed with punctal stenosis following the long-term use of topical neomycin-polymyxin B-dexamethasone (NPD). All patients were initially presented for ophthalmic diseases requiring ongoing anti-inflammatory therapy. Five of the 6 dogs had previously or concurrently been treated with topical anti-inflammatory medications other than NPD. One patient exclusively received topical NPD prior to the diagnosis of punctal stenosis. The onset of punctal stenosis following therapy with NPD was variable among patients, ranging from 4 months to over 1 year. Diagnosis of punctal stenosis was made based upon the presence of epiphora and visualization of fibrotic tissue over the nasolacrimal puncta.
30175623	Topiramate	Retinal Detachment	1	1	1	1	1.0	Acquired myopia followed by acquired hyperopia due to serous neurosensory retinal detachment following topiramate intake.	PURPOSE: To report a patient with fluctuating refraction following the use of oral topiramate. CASE REPORT: A 38-year-old male patient was diagnosed elsewhere with sudden-onset-acquired myopia, high intraocular pressure, and bilateral angle closure glaucoma for which he underwent laser peripheral iridotomy in both eyes and was started on topical antiglaucoma medications and topical steroids following laser peripheral iridotomy. He was referred for ultrasound biomicroscopy, which showed bilateral ciliary effusion. Ultrasound of eyes revealed choroidal thickening. On further questioning, he was noted to have taken oral topiramate for 7 days, which he stopped a week before the ocular symptoms. He was started on atropine, on which the acquired myopia resolved, the anterior chamber deepened, and the intraocular pressure came down. After 4 days, he developed acquired hyperopia in the left eye. Neurosensory retinal detachment at the posterior pole was documented with optical coherence tomography. The fluorescein angiography showed few ink-blot leaks and one smokestack leak in the left eye. The neurosensory detachment resolved spontaneously with an uncorrected visual acuity of 6/6 in either eye. CONCLUSION: A unique case of central serous chorioretinopathy following oral intake of topiramate is presented. This patient had also received laser peripheral iridotomy and topical steroids following the peripheral iridotomy.
30025072	Aldosterone	Macular Edema	0	0	0	0		Aldosterone Exposure Causes Increased Retinal Edema and Severe Retinopathy Following Laser-Induced Retinal Vein Occlusion in Mice.	PURPOSE: To determine the effects of aldosterone exposure on retinal edema and retinopathy in a mouse model of retinal vein occlusion (RVO). METHODS: RVO was induced immediately following intravenous injection of Rose bengal (66 mg/kg) using a 532-nm wavelength laser to place three to seven applications at 80 mW and 50-mum spot size directed at the superior retinal vein one disc diameter away from the nerve. Negative control consisted of placing an equal number of laser spots without targeting the vein. Male and female C57BL/6J mice aged 7 to 9 months with confirmed absence of Crb1rd8 were used. Aldosterone pellets releasing a daily dose of 0.83 mug/day were implanted subcutaneously 4 weeks prior to RVO. Retinal imaging by optical coherence tomography (OCT) was performed using a Micron IV rodent imaging system. Retinas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using standard techniques. Retinal imaging and tissue analysis were performed 2, 4, and 7 days following RVO. Comparisons were made using Student's t-test, ANOVA, and Pearson's chi2. RESULTS: RVO caused retinal edema in the form of cystic spaces and retinal thickening detectable by both OCT and histology. RVO also caused Muller glia (MG) dysfunction manifest as upregulated glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and altered localization of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) and Kir4.1. Treatment with aldosterone caused a significant increase in retinal edema and more severe retinopathy manifest as retinal whitening and extensive intraretinal hemorrhage. MG dysfunction was more severe and persistent in aldosterone-treated mice. Finally, aldosterone greatly increased the number of infiltrating mononuclear phagocytes following RVO. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic aldosterone exposure causes a more severe RVO phenotype manifest as increased severity and duration of retinal edema and more severe retinopathy. The effects of aldosterone may be mediated by MG dysfunction and increased infiltration of mononuclear phagocytes. This suggests that small increases in aldosterone levels may be a risk factor for severe RVO.
30025072	Aldosterone	Retinal Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Aldosterone Exposure Causes Increased Retinal Edema and Severe Retinopathy Following Laser-Induced Retinal Vein Occlusion in Mice.	PURPOSE: To determine the effects of aldosterone exposure on retinal edema and retinopathy in a mouse model of retinal vein occlusion (RVO). METHODS: RVO was induced immediately following intravenous injection of Rose bengal (66 mg/kg) using a 532-nm wavelength laser to place three to seven applications at 80 mW and 50-mum spot size directed at the superior retinal vein one disc diameter away from the nerve. Negative control consisted of placing an equal number of laser spots without targeting the vein. Male and female C57BL/6J mice aged 7 to 9 months with confirmed absence of Crb1rd8 were used. Aldosterone pellets releasing a daily dose of 0.83 mug/day were implanted subcutaneously 4 weeks prior to RVO. Retinal imaging by optical coherence tomography (OCT) was performed using a Micron IV rodent imaging system. Retinas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry using standard techniques. Retinal imaging and tissue analysis were performed 2, 4, and 7 days following RVO. Comparisons were made using Student's t-test, ANOVA, and Pearson's chi2. RESULTS: RVO caused retinal edema in the form of cystic spaces and retinal thickening detectable by both OCT and histology. RVO also caused Muller glia (MG) dysfunction manifest as upregulated glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and altered localization of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) and Kir4.1. Treatment with aldosterone caused a significant increase in retinal edema and more severe retinopathy manifest as retinal whitening and extensive intraretinal hemorrhage. MG dysfunction was more severe and persistent in aldosterone-treated mice. Finally, aldosterone greatly increased the number of infiltrating mononuclear phagocytes following RVO. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic aldosterone exposure causes a more severe RVO phenotype manifest as increased severity and duration of retinal edema and more severe retinopathy. The effects of aldosterone may be mediated by MG dysfunction and increased infiltration of mononuclear phagocytes. This suggests that small increases in aldosterone levels may be a risk factor for severe RVO.
29937384	Nivolumab	Cardiac Tamponade	1	0	0	0		Recurrent Pericardial Effusion While Receiving Nivolumab for Metastatic Lung Adenocarcinoma: Case Report and Review of the Literature.	
29937384	Nivolumab	Pericardial Effusion	1	0	0	0		Recurrent Pericardial Effusion While Receiving Nivolumab for Metastatic Lung Adenocarcinoma: Case Report and Review of the Literature.	
29801705	Nivolumab	Intestinal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Widespread Nivolumab-induced Enteropathy in a Long Responder Non-Small-cell Lung Cancer Patient.	
29460222	Cadmium	Metabolic Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Heavy Metal Exposure and Metabolic Syndrome: Evidence from Human and Model System Studies.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Metabolic syndrome (MS) describes the co-occurrence of conditions that increase one's risk for heart disease and other disorders such as diabetes and stroke. The worldwide increase in the prevalence of MS cannot be fully explained by lifestyle factors such as sedentary behavior and caloric intake alone. Environmental exposures, such as heavy metals, have been implicated, but results are conflicting and possible mechanisms remain unclear. To assess recent progress in determining a possible role between heavy metal exposure and MS, we reviewed epidemiological and model system data for cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb), and mercury (Hg) from the last decade. RECENT FINDINGS: Data from 36 epidemiological studies involving 17 unique countries/regions and 13 studies leveraging model systems are included in this review. Epidemiological and model system studies support a possible association between heavy metal exposure and MS or comorbid conditions; however, results remain conflicting. Epidemiological studies were predominantly cross-sectional and collectively, they highlight a global interest in this question and reveal evidence of differential susceptibility by sex and age to heavy metal exposures. In vivo studies in rats and mice and in vitro cell-based assays provide insights into potential mechanisms of action relevant to MS including altered regulation of lipid and glucose homeostasis, adipogenesis, and oxidative stress. Heavy metal exposure may contribute to MS or comorbid conditions; however, available data are conflicting. Causal inference remains challenging as epidemiological data are largely cross-sectional; and variation in study design, including samples used for heavy metal measurements, age of subjects at which MS outcomes are measured; the scope and treatment of confounding factors; and the population demographics vary widely. Prospective studies, standardization or increased consistency across study designs and reporting, and consideration of molecular mechanisms informed by model system studies are needed to better assess potential causal links between heavy metal exposure and MS.
29460222	Lead	Metabolic Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Heavy Metal Exposure and Metabolic Syndrome: Evidence from Human and Model System Studies.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Metabolic syndrome (MS) describes the co-occurrence of conditions that increase one's risk for heart disease and other disorders such as diabetes and stroke. The worldwide increase in the prevalence of MS cannot be fully explained by lifestyle factors such as sedentary behavior and caloric intake alone. Environmental exposures, such as heavy metals, have been implicated, but results are conflicting and possible mechanisms remain unclear. To assess recent progress in determining a possible role between heavy metal exposure and MS, we reviewed epidemiological and model system data for cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb), and mercury (Hg) from the last decade. RECENT FINDINGS: Data from 36 epidemiological studies involving 17 unique countries/regions and 13 studies leveraging model systems are included in this review. Epidemiological and model system studies support a possible association between heavy metal exposure and MS or comorbid conditions; however, results remain conflicting. Epidemiological studies were predominantly cross-sectional and collectively, they highlight a global interest in this question and reveal evidence of differential susceptibility by sex and age to heavy metal exposures. In vivo studies in rats and mice and in vitro cell-based assays provide insights into potential mechanisms of action relevant to MS including altered regulation of lipid and glucose homeostasis, adipogenesis, and oxidative stress. Heavy metal exposure may contribute to MS or comorbid conditions; however, available data are conflicting. Causal inference remains challenging as epidemiological data are largely cross-sectional; and variation in study design, including samples used for heavy metal measurements, age of subjects at which MS outcomes are measured; the scope and treatment of confounding factors; and the population demographics vary widely. Prospective studies, standardization or increased consistency across study designs and reporting, and consideration of molecular mechanisms informed by model system studies are needed to better assess potential causal links between heavy metal exposure and MS.
29460222	Mercury	Metabolic Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Heavy Metal Exposure and Metabolic Syndrome: Evidence from Human and Model System Studies.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Metabolic syndrome (MS) describes the co-occurrence of conditions that increase one's risk for heart disease and other disorders such as diabetes and stroke. The worldwide increase in the prevalence of MS cannot be fully explained by lifestyle factors such as sedentary behavior and caloric intake alone. Environmental exposures, such as heavy metals, have been implicated, but results are conflicting and possible mechanisms remain unclear. To assess recent progress in determining a possible role between heavy metal exposure and MS, we reviewed epidemiological and model system data for cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb), and mercury (Hg) from the last decade. RECENT FINDINGS: Data from 36 epidemiological studies involving 17 unique countries/regions and 13 studies leveraging model systems are included in this review. Epidemiological and model system studies support a possible association between heavy metal exposure and MS or comorbid conditions; however, results remain conflicting. Epidemiological studies were predominantly cross-sectional and collectively, they highlight a global interest in this question and reveal evidence of differential susceptibility by sex and age to heavy metal exposures. In vivo studies in rats and mice and in vitro cell-based assays provide insights into potential mechanisms of action relevant to MS including altered regulation of lipid and glucose homeostasis, adipogenesis, and oxidative stress. Heavy metal exposure may contribute to MS or comorbid conditions; however, available data are conflicting. Causal inference remains challenging as epidemiological data are largely cross-sectional; and variation in study design, including samples used for heavy metal measurements, age of subjects at which MS outcomes are measured; the scope and treatment of confounding factors; and the population demographics vary widely. Prospective studies, standardization or increased consistency across study designs and reporting, and consideration of molecular mechanisms informed by model system studies are needed to better assess potential causal links between heavy metal exposure and MS.
29363543	Prolactin	Mammary Neoplasms, Animal	1	1	0	0	0.0	Antiestrogen Therapy Increases Plasticity and Cancer Stemness of Prolactin-Induced ERalpha(+) Mammary Carcinomas.	Although antiestrogen therapies are successful in many patients with estrogen receptor alpha-positive (ERalpha(+)) breast cancer, 25% to 40% fail to respond. Although multiple mechanisms underlie evasion of these treatments, including tumor heterogeneity and drug-resistant cancer stem cells (CSC), further investigations have been limited by the paucity of preclinical ERalpha(+) tumor models. Here, we examined a mouse model of prolactin-induced aggressive ERalpha(+) breast cancer, which mimics the epidemiologic link between prolactin exposure and increased risk for metastatic ERalpha(+) tumors. Like a subset of ERalpha(+) patient cancers, the prolactin-induced adenocarcinomas contained two major tumor subpopulations that expressed markers of normal luminal and basal epithelial cells. CSC activity was distributed equally across these two tumor subpopulations. Treatment with the selective estrogen receptor downregulator (SERD), ICI 182,780 (ICI), did not slow tumor growth, but induced adaptive responses in CSC activity, increased markers of plasticity including target gene reporters of Wnt/Notch signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and increased double-positive (K8/K5) cells. In primary tumorsphere cultures, ICI stimulated CSC self-renewal and was able to overcome the dependence of self-renewal upon Wnt or Notch signaling individually, but not together. Our findings demonstrate that treatment of aggressive mixed lineage ERalpha(+) breast cancers with a SERD does not inhibit growth, but rather evokes tumor cell plasticity and regenerative CSC activity, predicting likely negative impacts on patient tumors with these characteristics.Significance: This study suggests that treatment of a subset of ERalpha(+) breast cancers with antiestrogen therapies may not only fail to slow growth but also promote aggressive behavior by evoking tumor cell plasticity and regenerative CSC activity. Cancer Res; 78(7); 1672-84. (c)2018 AACR.
29329822	Clozapine	Lymphoma	0	0	0	0		Lymphoma following clozapine exposure: More information needed.	
29322849	Lenalidomide	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Safety profile of lenalidomide in patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes without del(5q): results of a phase 3 trial.	The safety profile of lenalidomide use in lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients with del(5q) is well-established, but less is known in non-del(5q) patients. We provide safety data from a randomized, phase 3 trial evaluating lenalidomide in 239 patients with lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS ineligible/refractory to erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs). Compared with placebo, lenalidomide was associated with a higher incidence of grade 3-4 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs; 86% vs. 44%), but not risk of infection (p = .817) or hemorrhagic events (p = 1.000). Grade 3-4 non-hematologic TEAEs were rare (the incidence of grade 3-4 pneumonia, e.g. was 5.6% in the lenalidomide group and 2.5% in the placebo group). Common grade 1-2 non-hematologic TEAEs did not require dose modifications or treatment discontinuation. Acute myeloid leukemia and second primary malignancies incidence was similar across treatment groups. Lenalidomide had a predictable and manageable safety profile in lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS patients ineligible/refractory to ESAs. Guidance on managing lenalidomide-related TEAEs is provided to help maintain patients on therapy to achieve maximum clinical benefit. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01029262.
29322849	Lenalidomide	Exanthema	1	0	0	0		Safety profile of lenalidomide in patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes without del(5q): results of a phase 3 trial.	The safety profile of lenalidomide use in lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients with del(5q) is well-established, but less is known in non-del(5q) patients. We provide safety data from a randomized, phase 3 trial evaluating lenalidomide in 239 patients with lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS ineligible/refractory to erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs). Compared with placebo, lenalidomide was associated with a higher incidence of grade 3-4 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs; 86% vs. 44%), but not risk of infection (p = .817) or hemorrhagic events (p = 1.000). Grade 3-4 non-hematologic TEAEs were rare (the incidence of grade 3-4 pneumonia, e.g. was 5.6% in the lenalidomide group and 2.5% in the placebo group). Common grade 1-2 non-hematologic TEAEs did not require dose modifications or treatment discontinuation. Acute myeloid leukemia and second primary malignancies incidence was similar across treatment groups. Lenalidomide had a predictable and manageable safety profile in lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS patients ineligible/refractory to ESAs. Guidance on managing lenalidomide-related TEAEs is provided to help maintain patients on therapy to achieve maximum clinical benefit. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01029262.
29322849	Lenalidomide	Fatigue	1	0	0	0		Safety profile of lenalidomide in patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes without del(5q): results of a phase 3 trial.	The safety profile of lenalidomide use in lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients with del(5q) is well-established, but less is known in non-del(5q) patients. We provide safety data from a randomized, phase 3 trial evaluating lenalidomide in 239 patients with lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS ineligible/refractory to erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs). Compared with placebo, lenalidomide was associated with a higher incidence of grade 3-4 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs; 86% vs. 44%), but not risk of infection (p = .817) or hemorrhagic events (p = 1.000). Grade 3-4 non-hematologic TEAEs were rare (the incidence of grade 3-4 pneumonia, e.g. was 5.6% in the lenalidomide group and 2.5% in the placebo group). Common grade 1-2 non-hematologic TEAEs did not require dose modifications or treatment discontinuation. Acute myeloid leukemia and second primary malignancies incidence was similar across treatment groups. Lenalidomide had a predictable and manageable safety profile in lower-risk non-del(5q) MDS patients ineligible/refractory to ESAs. Guidance on managing lenalidomide-related TEAEs is provided to help maintain patients on therapy to achieve maximum clinical benefit. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01029262.
28891066	Fluconazole	Sweet Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Fluconazole-induced Sweet's syndrome: A novel association.	
28726329	Sorafenib	Erythema	1	0	0	0		Sorafenib-induced erythema annulare centrifugum with spontaneous resolution after skin biopsy.	
28726329	Sorafenib	Leg Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Sorafenib-induced erythema annulare centrifugum with spontaneous resolution after skin biopsy.	
28726329	Sorafenib	Skin Diseases, Genetic	1	0	0	0		Sorafenib-induced erythema annulare centrifugum with spontaneous resolution after skin biopsy.	
28579003	Terlipressin	Hematemesis	1	0	0	0		An unusual cause of massive hematemesis after treatment with terlipressin.	
28159484	Tenofovir	Kidney Tubular Necrosis, Acute	0	0	0	0		[Lack of energy in a patient living with HIV].	
30326737	Tenofovir	Necrosis	0	1	0	0		Mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis and necrosis contribute to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-induced renal damage in rats.	Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) is currently the only nucleotide analogue reverse-transcriptase inhibitor that is approved by the Food and Drug administration (FDA), USA, for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. In recent days, renal toxicity is becoming common i HIV patients treated with TDF. However, the mechanism of tenofovir nephrotoxicity is not clear. We hypothesized that mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis, poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase (PARP) overactivation and neutrophil infiltration may contribute to tenofovir-induced renal damage. Renal damage was induced in adult male Wistar rats by the oral administration of 600 mg/kg body weight daily for five consecutive weeks. Kidneys were removed and used for histological and biochemical analyses. Apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labelling (TUNEL) assay and caspase 3 activity and protein expression; mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis by cyt c release; and PARP activation by immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry and Western blot techniques. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity was measured as a marker of neutrophil infiltration. TDF administration resulted in increased number of TUNEL-positive cells, activation of caspase 3 and release of cyt c from mitochondria into the cytosol in the kidneys. There was increased nuclear localization of PARP as well as increase in its protein level in the TDF-treated rat kidneys. In addition, renal MPO activity was increased ninefold as compared to controls. The results of the present study show that mitochondrial apoptotic pathway, PARP overactivation and neutrophil infiltration contribute to tenofovir-induced renal damage in rats.
30169374	Epoetin Alfa	Anaphylaxis	1	1	0	0	0.0	"Investigating Serious Adverse Drug Reactions in Patients Receiving Erythropoiesis-Stimulating Agents: A Root Cause Analysis Using the ""ANTICIPATE"" Framework."	"BACKGROUND: Unexpected serious adverse drug reactions (sADRs) affecting patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who received erythropoiesis-stimulating agents were identified by study co-authors. These included pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) after administration of the Eprex formulation of epoetin or the epoetin biosimilar HX575 and fatal anaphylaxis associated with peginesatide, an erythropoietin receptor agonist. We developed and applied a structured framework to describe these sADRs, including root cause analyses and eradication efforts. METHODS: A 10-step framework termed ""ANTICIPATE,"" focusing on signal identification, incidence, causality, and eradication guided our evaluations. RESULTS: Initial cases were identified by a hematologist (Eprex), clinical study monitors (HX575), and 4 nurses (peginesatide). The number of persons with individual ADRs was 13 PRCA cases for epoetin, 2 antibody-mediated PRCA cases for HX575, and 5 fatal anaphylaxis cases for peginesatide. Initial incidence estimates per 1000 treated persons were 0.27 for Eprex-associated PRCA, 11 for HX575-associated PRCA, and 0.38 for peginesatide fatalities. Likely causes were subcutaneous administration of epoetin formulated with polysorbate 80 (Eprex), tungsten leaching from pins included in product syringes (HX575), and inclusion of a phenol stabilizer (peginesatide). Eradication strategies included restricting Eprex administration to the intravenous route, excluding tungsten from HX575 syringes, and for peginesatide, proposed eradication was to return to single-dose vials without preservatives. CONCLUSION: Although the number of cases of each sADR was small, eradication was successful for 2 sADRs, and a proposed eradication was developed for a third sADR. The structured framework used to describe the above 3 sADRs in patients with CKD can also be used in other clinical settings."
29697579	Asparaginase	Abdominal Pain	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acid-suppressing Drugs and a Low 1 Level of Antithrombin as Risk Factors for L-Asparaginase-associated Pancreatitis: A Case-control Study in the Japan Association of Childhood Leukemia Study (JACLS).	L-Asparaginase has significantly improved outcome for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and has become an essential component of multiagent chemotherapy. However, there are many adverse events due to L-asparaginase, including acute pancreatitis. The pathology of L-asparaginase-associated pancreatitis (AAP) remains unclear. We compared patients who developed AAP (n=29) and random matched controls (n=36) who had been enrolled in the Japan Association of Childhood Leukemia Study of the ALL-02 protocol. AAP and control patients were matched for age, sex, treatment, and protocol risk. We examined correlations between AAP development and clinical symptoms, laboratory data, and concomitant medication. Abdominal pain and nausea were common presenting symptoms for AAP. There was an increased risk of AAP in patients using gastric acid-suppressing agents and antithrombin (AT) supplementation. Mean fibrinogen and AT levels before the onset of AAP were lower in AAP patients than in controls. Decreased AT and fibrinogen levels resulting from the strong suppression of protein synthesis by L-asparaginase were predictive signs for AAP. Our epidemiological approach should prove clinically useful for the diagnosis the AAP as early as possible.
29624647	Linagliptin	Diabetes Mellitus	1	0	0	0		Maculopapular drug eruption induced by linagliptin.	
29570939	Telbivudine	Mitochondrial Myopathies	1	0	0	0		Telbivudine associated mitochondrial myopathy.	
29532602	Pantoprazole	Cholangitis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pantoprazole-induced autoimmune chronic hepatitis.	BACKGROUND: Although very rare, pantoprazole can result in acute hepatitis. It has yet to be reported, however, that it can also cause chronic autoimmune hepatitis. AIM, METHOD AND RESULTS: We report the case of a patient in whom pantoprazole administration for 2 months was followed by acute liver injury with severe jaundice and features of autoimmunity. A liver biopsy revealed acute hepatocellular lesions associated with cholestasis, acute cholangitis and polymorphous inflammatory infiltration suggestive of drug-induced liver injury. The jaundice disappeared following discontinuation of the pantoprazole. There was, however, chronic autoimmune liver injury, with the occurrence of extensive liver fibrosis within a few months. This led to the administration of immunosuppressive agents, which led to progressive and complete recovery associated with the disappearance of autoantibodies. CONCLUSION: This observation further supports the notion that pantoprazole can induce acute hepatocellular hepatitis, and it strongly suggests that it may trigger acute cholangitis and autoimmune liver injury. This case also helps document that some drugs can induce chronic autoimmune hepatitis that can resolve with immunosuppressive treatment.
29532602	Pantoprazole	Cholestasis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pantoprazole-induced autoimmune chronic hepatitis.	BACKGROUND: Although very rare, pantoprazole can result in acute hepatitis. It has yet to be reported, however, that it can also cause chronic autoimmune hepatitis. AIM, METHOD AND RESULTS: We report the case of a patient in whom pantoprazole administration for 2 months was followed by acute liver injury with severe jaundice and features of autoimmunity. A liver biopsy revealed acute hepatocellular lesions associated with cholestasis, acute cholangitis and polymorphous inflammatory infiltration suggestive of drug-induced liver injury. The jaundice disappeared following discontinuation of the pantoprazole. There was, however, chronic autoimmune liver injury, with the occurrence of extensive liver fibrosis within a few months. This led to the administration of immunosuppressive agents, which led to progressive and complete recovery associated with the disappearance of autoantibodies. CONCLUSION: This observation further supports the notion that pantoprazole can induce acute hepatocellular hepatitis, and it strongly suggests that it may trigger acute cholangitis and autoimmune liver injury. This case also helps document that some drugs can induce chronic autoimmune hepatitis that can resolve with immunosuppressive treatment.
29532602	Pantoprazole	Liver Cirrhosis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pantoprazole-induced autoimmune chronic hepatitis.	BACKGROUND: Although very rare, pantoprazole can result in acute hepatitis. It has yet to be reported, however, that it can also cause chronic autoimmune hepatitis. AIM, METHOD AND RESULTS: We report the case of a patient in whom pantoprazole administration for 2 months was followed by acute liver injury with severe jaundice and features of autoimmunity. A liver biopsy revealed acute hepatocellular lesions associated with cholestasis, acute cholangitis and polymorphous inflammatory infiltration suggestive of drug-induced liver injury. The jaundice disappeared following discontinuation of the pantoprazole. There was, however, chronic autoimmune liver injury, with the occurrence of extensive liver fibrosis within a few months. This led to the administration of immunosuppressive agents, which led to progressive and complete recovery associated with the disappearance of autoantibodies. CONCLUSION: This observation further supports the notion that pantoprazole can induce acute hepatocellular hepatitis, and it strongly suggests that it may trigger acute cholangitis and autoimmune liver injury. This case also helps document that some drugs can induce chronic autoimmune hepatitis that can resolve with immunosuppressive treatment.
29528883	Paliperidone Palmitate	Atrioventricular Block	1	0	0	0		Paliperidone-Associated Atrioventricular Block.	
29313937	Sorafenib	Acneiform Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Image Gallery: Sorafenib-induced acne of the buttocks.	
29150351	Cyproterone Acetate	Breast Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Combined Hormonal Contraceptive Use and Risk of Breast Cancer in a Population of Women With a Family History.	BACKGROUND: We estimated the association between combined hormonal contraceptive (CHC) use and breast cancer (BC) incidence in a well-selected population of women at familial risk of BC at the Modena Family Cancer Clinic. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study by reviewing the data from 2527 women (4.5% BRCA mutation carriers, 72.2% high risk, and 23.3% intermediate risk using the Modena criteria and the Tyrer-Cuzick model). RESULTS: We did not find any specific feature of breast cancer (infiltration, hormone receptor and HER2 status, onset before age 35 years, multiple diagnoses) in the CHC users (P > .05). Only 2.0% of women used a preparation with >/= 50 mug of ethinylestradiol (EE). The use of CHCs was not associated with an increased risk of breast cancer (cumulative hazard: never used, 0.17; CHC users, 0.20; P = .998), regardless of the duration of use (cumulative hazard: never used, 0.17, used < 5 years, 0.20; used 5-10 years, 0.14; used > 10 years, 0.25; P = .414). This was confirmed for the different risk groups when interacted in a Cox proportional hazard regression model. The EE dose did not influence the risk of BC (cumulative hazard, 2.37; 95% confidence interval, 0.53-10.1; never used, 0.18; EE < 20 mug used, 0.04; EE >/= 20 mug used, 0.16; P = .259). The types of progestins used might influence the risk, with some, such as gestodene (P = .028) and cyproterone acetate (P = .031), associated with an even greater reduced risk. CONCLUSIONS: CHC use does not increase the risk of BC in a population of women with a family history, encouraging CHC use in this group of women.
29128193	Anastrozole	Arthralgia	0	1	0	0		Vitamin D Levels, Vitamin D Receptor Polymorphisms, and Inflammatory Cytokines in Aromatase Inhibitor-Induced Arthralgias: An Analysis of CCTG MA.27.	BACKGROUND: Approximately half of women taking aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy develop AI-induced arthralgia (AIA), and many might discontinue AI therapy because of the pain. Using plasma samples from the MA.27 study, we assessed several factors potentially associated with AIA. PATIENTS AND METHODS: MA.27 is a phase III adjuvant trial comparing 2 AIs, exemestane versus anastrozole. Within an 893-participant nested case-control AIA genome-wide association study, we nested a 72 AIA case-144 control assessment of vitamin D plasma concentrations, corrected for seasonal and geographic variation. We also examined 9 baseline inflammatory cytokines: interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon (IFN)gamma, IL-10, IL-12p70, IL-17, IL-23, and chemokine ligand (CCL)-20. Finally, we analyzed the multivariate effects of baseline factors: vitamin D level, previously identified musculoskeletal single nucleotide polymorphisms, age, body mass index, and vitamin D receptor (VDR) Fok-I variant genotype on AIA development. RESULTS: Changes in vitamin D from baseline to 6 months were not significantly different between cases and controls. Elevated inflammatory cytokine levels were not associated with development of AIA. The multivariate model included no clinical factors associated with AIA. However, women with the VDR Fok-I variant genotype were more likely to have a lower IL-1beta level (P = .0091) and less likely to develop AIA after 6 months of AI compared with those with the wild type VDR (P < .0001). CONCLUSION: In this nested case-control correlative study, vitamin D levels were not significantly associated with development of AIA; however, patients with the Fok-I VDR variant genotype were more likely to have a significant reduction in IL-1beta level, and less likely to develop AIA.
28930759	Immunoglobulins, Intravenous	Bradycardia	1	0	0	0		Intravenous Immunoglobulin-Induced Profound Bradycardia in a Patient With Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura.	
28786821	Ciprofloxacin	Hyponatremia	1	0	0	0		Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Consecutive to treatment with Ciprofloxacin.	
28418946	Dapsone	Pulmonary Embolism	1	0	0	0		A Case of Cyanosis: Dapsone Induced Methemoglobinemia and Coexisting Pulmonary Embolism.	
28282309	Pantoprazole	Pancreatitis, Chronic	1	0	0	0		Recurrent Pantoprazole-Associated Pancreatitis.	
30828027	Nivolumab	Polymyalgia Rheumatica	1	1	0	0	1.0	[Effectiveness of a Low-dose Corticosteroid in a Patient with Polymyalgia Rheumatica Associated with Nivolumab Treatment].	Nivolumab, an anti-programmed cell death 1 antibody, has been approved for the treatment of unresectable advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Although immune-related adverse events (irAEs) such as dermatologic, digestive, endocrine, hepatic, and pulmonary toxicities are known to occur upon administration of immune checkpoint inhibitors, case reports of polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) associated with nivolumab use are rare. We report a case of an NSCLC patient who developed PMR during treatment with nivolumab and received corticosteroids. A 74-year-old man without a history of autoimmune diseases received nivolumab at a dosage of 3 mg/kg once every 2 weeks for the treatment of stage IIIB squamous cell carcinoma. After 12 cycles of nivolumab treatment, he developed grade 3 muscle pain and arthralgia, requiring hospitalization and discontinuation of nivolumab. A bone scintigraphy revealed no bone metastasis. Serological tests showed that although creatine phosphokinase did not increase, C-reactive protein and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate were both high. Tests for the rheumatoid factor, anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody, and anti-nuclear antibody were negative. In addition to the serological findings, joint ultrasonography data and clinical symptoms were evaluated, leading to the diagnosis of PMR. Oral prednisolone 20 mg/d was started to treat the PMR without giant-cell arteritis. The patient's symptoms improved within 5 d of the initiation of treatment. Prednisolone was tapered to 5 mg/d without recurrence of PMR. Although grade 3 or 4 irAEs (except in type 1 diabetes) are generally treated with high-dose corticosteroids, grade 3 PMR associated with nivolumab use may be treatable with low-dose corticosteroids.
30745487	Hydroxyzine	Nystagmus, Pathologic	1	0	0	0		Hydroxyzine-induced Vertical Nystagmus.	
30673037	Sorbitol	Rectal Diseases	1	1	0	1	1.0	Rectal ulcer due to Kayexalate deposition - an unusual case.	Sodium polystyrene sulfonate (PSP) or Kayexalate is a cation-exchange resin, widely used in the management of hyperkalaemia due to renal disease. A rare, yet potentially dangerous, adverse event related to sodium polystyrene sulfonate use is intestinal mucosal injury, especially in the colon. The injury to the gastrointestinal mucosa can range from mild and superficial to wall necrosis and bowel perforation. The mechanism that leads to mucosal damage remains unclear. However, it is believed that sorbitol, commonly given to counteract PSP's tendency to cause constipation, may play an important role in the development of gastrointestinal injury. Other potential risk factors are uraemia or end-stage renal disease, hemodynamic instability, solid organ transplantation, postoperative status and concomitant opioid administration. The authors present a case of diarrhoea and haematochezia after the administration of PSP without sorbitol, in a patient with hyperkalaemia due to acute kidney injury, in the absence of other risk factors. A colonoscopy was performed and revealed a rectal ulcer which histological findings were suggestive of mucosal injury due to Kayexalate deposition. This case supports the concept that this widely used drug can itself, without sorbitol, cause injury to the gastrointestinal wall. Even though this is a rare adverse effect, the widespread use of this medication may put a large population at risk.
30587655	Acetaminophen	Dystonia	1	0	0	0		Drug Induced Acute Dystonic Reaction.	
30543944	Carbon Monoxide	Dry Eye Syndromes	0	0	0	0		Impacts of air pollution on dry eye disease among residents in Hangzhou, China: A case-crossover study.	The purpose of this study is to investigate the potential associations between air pollution and dry eye disease (DED). Data of outdoor air pollutants and meteorology as well as outpatient visits for DED were collected. A time-stratified case-crossover approach was used to analyze the associations between ambient air pollutants and outpatient visits for DED. Among the 5062 DED patients studied, 65.45% were female and 34.55% were male. In the single-pollutant model, significant associations were observed between an increase of 10 mug/m(3) in the concentrations of fine-particulate matter with a median aerometric diameter of less than 10 mum (PM(10)), fine-particulate matter with a median aerometric diameter of less than 2.5 mum (PM(2.5)), sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), and carbon monoxide (CO) and outpatient visits for DED. These results were consistent with those of the multipollutant model. The strongest associations between air pollutants and patient visits were observed during the cold season and in patients aged 21-40. The significant association between air pollutants (PM(10), PM(2.5), SO(2), NO(2), and CO) and DED outpatient visits indicates the importance of increased environmental protection.
30447669	Sevoflurane	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	0	0	0		Postoperative cognitive dysfunction after sevoflurane or propofol general anaesthesia in combination with spinal anaesthesia for hip arthroplasty.	It is unknown if the type of general anaesthetic used for maintenance of anaesthesia affects the incidence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD). The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of POCD in patients administered either sevoflurane or propofol for maintenance of anaesthesia during total hip replacement surgery. Following administration of a spinal anaesthetic, patients received either sevoflurane (n=121) or propofol (n=171) at the discretion of the anaesthetist for maintenance of general anaesthesia to maintain the processed electroencephalogram (bispectral index, BIS) under 60. POCD was assessed postoperatively at day 7, three months, and 12 months using a neurocognitive test battery. There was no statistically significant difference between the incidence of POCD at any timepoint with sevoflurane compared to propofol. The mean BIS was significantly lower in the sevoflurane group than in the propofol group (mean BIS 44.3 [standard deviation, SD 7.5] in the sevoflurane group versus 53.7 [SD 8.1] in the propofol group, P=0.0001). However, there was no statistically significant association between intraoperative BIS level and the incidence of POCD at any timepoint. Our results suggest that the incidence of POCD is not strongly influenced by the type of anaesthesia used in elderly patients.
30447665	Chlorhexidine	Arachnoiditis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adhesive arachnoiditis following inadvertent epidural injection of 2% chlorhexidine in 70% alcohol-partial recovery over the ensuing eight years.	We report a case of serious neurologic injury due to inadvertent epidural injection of 8 ml of the antiseptic 2% chlorhexidine in 70% alcohol during a procedure aimed to relieve the pain of labour. This resulted in immediate severe back pain, progressive tetraparesis and sphincter dysfunction caused by damage to the spinal cord and nerve roots. Subacute hydrocephalus necessitated drainage, but cranial nerve and cognitive function were spared. Magnetic resonance imaging documented marked abnormality of the spinal cord and surrounding leptomeninges. In the ensuing eight years, there has been clinical and electrophysiological evidence of partial recovery, but neurologic deficit remains severe.
30188953	Aspirin	Prostatic Neoplasms	0	0	0	0		Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with short-acting inhaled pharmacotherapy increases the risk of prostate cancer: A two-stage database approach.	BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are at a higher risk of many types of cancer. However, specific investigation of the risk of prostate cancer and the influence of COPD pharmacotherapy in patients with COPD is lacking. This study investigated the risk and influence of COPD pharmacotherapy on risk of prostate cancer in patients with COPD. METHODS: This retrospective cohort study used data from Taiwan's Longitudinal Health Insurance Database 2005 (LHID2005). The study cohort comprised COPD patients who received treatment between 2004 and 2008, and who were identified from the LHID2005. The control cohort comprised patients without COPD and was matched to the study cohort by age and sex. Two-stage propensity score calibration with the National Health Interview Survey 2005 was performed to obtain the missing confounders of smoking, alcohol drinking, and body mass index in the LHID. The hazard ratio (HR) and adjusted HR were estimated. Moreover, the influence of inhaled medications and other related medication on the risk of prostate cancer was analyzed by Cox proportional hazard regression. RESULTS: The COPD cohort comprised 12,774 patients, and the control cohort comprised 38,322 patients (1:3). The incidence of prostate cancer was 633 per 100,000 person-years in the COPD cohort and 361 per 100,000 person-years in the control cohort. The propensity score calibration-adjusted HR was 1.62 (95% CI, 1.40-1.87, p < 0.001) in the COPD cohort. Further analysis revealed that the adjusted HR for the risk of prostate cancer was 1.61 (95% CI, 1.19-2.16, p = 0.002) in patients with COPD who used short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs) and 1.89 (95% CI, 1.40-2.54, p < 0.001) in patients with COPD who used short-acting beta-agonists (SABAs). COPD patients had lower risk of prostate cancer when using statin (HR = 0.63, 95% CI, 0.45-0.89, p = 0.010) or aspirin (HR = 0.55, 95% CI, 0.35-0.85, p = 0.008). CONCLUSION: Patients with COPD are at a higher risk of prostate cancer, particularly those using SAMAs or SABAs. This finding suggests that inflammation control may be an effective strategy for decreasing the risk of prostate cancer.
30181403	Prednisone	Duodenal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Double pylorus.	
30103003	Tazobactam	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Comparative incidence and excess risk of acute kidney injury in hospitalised patients receiving vancomycin and piperacillin/tazobactam in combination or as monotherapy.	Combination therapy with vancomycin and piperacillin/tazobactam (TZP) has been associated with increased risk of acute kidney injury (AKI) compared with monotherapy with either agent. This retrospective, matched cohort study was conducted to assess the comparative incidence of AKI due to combination therapy in patients receiving vancomycin and TZP in combination or as monotherapy. Patients aged >/=18 years admitted to Albany Medical Center (Albany, NY) between September 2013 and August 2014 who had received therapy for at least two consecutive days were included. Patients who were pregnant, neutropenic, had AKI on admission or with cystic fibrosis were excluded. Patients were matched on baseline risk of AKI. The main outcome of interest was AKI, defined as an increase in serum creatinine of >/=0.3 mg/L or >/=50% within 48 h. Secondary outcomes evaluated were length of hospital and ICU stay and inpatient mortality associated with AKI. The risk of AKI was 7.0%, 8.5% and 26.8% in the vancomycin monotherapy, TZP monotherapy and combination groups, respectively (P < 0.001). In the multivariate analysis, combination therapy was independently associated with an increased odds of AKI (adjusted odds ratio = 4.406, 95% confidence interval 1.472-13.188) compared with vancomycin monotherapy. The excess risk of combination therapy was 11.3%. In this matched cohort study, there was an increased incidence of AKI in patients receiving vancomycin and TZP combination therapy. Further research is needed to determine the individual strategies to best prevent inpatient AKI in patients receiving this combination therapy.
30056126	Oxaliplatin	Depression	1	1	0	0	0.0	Targeting the TREK-1 potassium channel via riluzole to eliminate the neuropathic and depressive-like effects of oxaliplatin.	Neurotoxicity remains the most common adverse effect of oxaliplatin, limiting its clinical use. In the present study, we developed a mouse model of chronic oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy, which mimics both sensory and motor deficits observed in patients, in a clinically relevant time course. Repeated oxaliplatin administration in mice induced both cephalic and extracephalic long lasting mechanical and cold hypersensitivity after the first injection as well as delayed sensorimotor deficits and a depression-like phenotype. Using this model, we report that riluzole prevents both sensory and motor deficits induced by oxaliplatin as well as the depression-like phenotype induced by cumulative chemotherapeutic drug doses. All the beneficial effects are due to riluzole action on the TREK-1 potassium channel, which plays a central role in its therapeutic action. Riluzole has no negative effect on oxaliplatin antiproliferative capacity in human colorectal cancer cells and on its anticancer effect in a mouse model of colorectal cancer. Moreover, riluzole decreases human colorectal cancer cell line viability in vitro and inhibits polyp development in vivo. The present data in mice may support the need to clinically test riluzole in oxaliplatin-treated cancer patients and state for the important role of the TREK-1 channel in pain perception.
30036294	Nerve Growth Factor	Myalgia	0	0	0	0		Experimental muscle hyperalgesia modulates sensorimotor cortical excitability, which is partially altered by unaccustomed exercise.	Impaired corticomotor function is reported in patients with lateral epicondylalgia, but the causal link to pain or musculotendinous overloading is unclear. In this study, sensorimotor cortical changes were investigated using a model of persistent pain combined with an overloading condition. In 24 healthy subjects, the effect of nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced pain, combined with delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), was examined on pain perception, pressure pain sensitivity, maximal force, and sensorimotor cortical excitability. Two groups (NGF alone and NGF + DOMS) received injections of NGF into the extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB) muscle at day 0, day 2, and day 4. At day 4, the NGF + DOMS group undertook wrist eccentric exercise to induce DOMS in the ECRB muscle. Muscle soreness scores, pressure pain thresholds over the ECRB muscle, maximal grip force, transcranial magnetic stimulation mapping of the cortical ECRB muscle representation, and somatosensory-evoked potentials from radial nerve stimulation were recorded at day 0, day 4, and day 6. Compared with day 0, day 4 showed in both groups: (1) increased muscle soreness (P < 0.01); (2) reduced pressure pain thresholds (P < 0.01); (3) increased motor map volume (P < 0.01); and (4) decreased frontal N30 somatosensory-evoked potential. At day 6, compared with day 4, only the DOMS + NGF group showed: (1) increased muscle soreness score (P < 0.01); (2) decreased grip force (P < 0.01); and (3) decreased motor map volume (P < 0.05). The NGF group did not show any difference on the remaining outcomes from day 4 to day 6. These data suggest that sustained muscle pain modulates sensorimotor cortical excitability and that exercise-induced DOMS alters pain-related corticomotor adaptation.
30003318	Fondaparinux	Thrombocytopenia	0	1	0	0		Comparison of argatroban and fondaparinux for the management of patients with isolated heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a serious complication of the administration of heparin and its derivatives. Non-heparin anticoagulants such as argatroban and fondaparinux are widely used in the management of HIT to compare the effectiveness of argatroban and fondaparinux in the resolution of thrombocytopenia and to compare clinical outcomes in patients with isolated HIT. A retrospective cohort analysis was performed at King Abdulaziz Medical City (KAMC) on patients diagnosed with isolated HIT between 31 Jan, 2014 and 30 June, 2017. Demographics data, non-heparin anticoagulants, related laboratory results, and clinical outcomes were retrieved and analysed. The cohort comprised a total of 95 adult patients who received either argatroban (56 patients) or fondaparinux (39 patients) for isolated HIT. The median age and sex distribution were similar in both argatroban and fondaparinux groups. The mean (+ SD) time (in days) for the resolution of thrombocytopenia was 3.5 (+/- 1.8) for patients who received argatroban and 3.7 (+/- 1.7) for patients administered fondaparinux (p = 0.843). Thromboembolic events occurred in five patients (8.9%) administered argatroban and in three patients (7.7%) administered fondaparinux (p = 0.382). There was no significant difference in the rates of bleeding or death (p = 0.829); however, the small number of cases limits our ability to draw conclusions about these outcomes. In this retrospective study, fondaparinux and argatroban were similarly effective in resolving thrombocytopenia, preventing further thromboembolic events, and maintaining safety in patients with confirmed HIT. To confirm this observation, larger prospective studies are needed.
30003318	Fondaparinux	Thromboembolism	0	1	0	0		Comparison of argatroban and fondaparinux for the management of patients with isolated heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.	Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a serious complication of the administration of heparin and its derivatives. Non-heparin anticoagulants such as argatroban and fondaparinux are widely used in the management of HIT to compare the effectiveness of argatroban and fondaparinux in the resolution of thrombocytopenia and to compare clinical outcomes in patients with isolated HIT. A retrospective cohort analysis was performed at King Abdulaziz Medical City (KAMC) on patients diagnosed with isolated HIT between 31 Jan, 2014 and 30 June, 2017. Demographics data, non-heparin anticoagulants, related laboratory results, and clinical outcomes were retrieved and analysed. The cohort comprised a total of 95 adult patients who received either argatroban (56 patients) or fondaparinux (39 patients) for isolated HIT. The median age and sex distribution were similar in both argatroban and fondaparinux groups. The mean (+ SD) time (in days) for the resolution of thrombocytopenia was 3.5 (+/- 1.8) for patients who received argatroban and 3.7 (+/- 1.7) for patients administered fondaparinux (p = 0.843). Thromboembolic events occurred in five patients (8.9%) administered argatroban and in three patients (7.7%) administered fondaparinux (p = 0.382). There was no significant difference in the rates of bleeding or death (p = 0.829); however, the small number of cases limits our ability to draw conclusions about these outcomes. In this retrospective study, fondaparinux and argatroban were similarly effective in resolving thrombocytopenia, preventing further thromboembolic events, and maintaining safety in patients with confirmed HIT. To confirm this observation, larger prospective studies are needed.
29844139	Propranolol	Bronchitis	1	0	0	0		Safety of Oral Propranolol for Infantile Hemangioma.	"OBJECTIVES: The safety of oral propranolol for infantile hemangioma has not yet been studied at population level since the pediatric use marketing authorization was obtained in Europe. METHODS: A survey of a nationwide, claim-based observational cohort of children <3 years old, with at least 1 delivery of oral propranolol between July 2014 and June 2016, was performed by using the database of the French National Health Insurance system. Standardized morbidity ratios (SMRs) were calculated by using, from the same database, a representative random sample of nonexposed subjects. The main outcomes were hospitalizations for cardiovascular (conduction disorders, bradycardia, and hypotension), respiratory (bronchial hyperactivity and bronchospasm), or metabolic events (hypoglycemia and hyperkalaemia), identified through the hospitalization diagnostic codes of the International Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision. The main analysis was conducted separately on ""healthy"" children (N = 1484), that is, free from of any prespecified underlying disease and on children with 1 of these underlying diseases (N = 269). RESULTS: In all, 1753 patients <3 years of age had at least 2 deliveries of oral propranolol. In the healthy population, we observed 2 cardiovascular events (SMR = 2.8 [0-6.7]), 51 respiratory events (SMR = 1.7 [1.2-2.1]), and 3 metabolic events (SMR = 5.1 [0-10.9]). In the population with an underlying disease (mainly congenital heart disease), we observed 11 cardiovascular events leading to an SMR of 6.0 (2.5-9.6). SMRs were not significantly raised for respiratory or metabolic events in this ""nonhealthy"" population. CONCLUSIONS: In this study on a large continuous nationwide claims database, we confirm the safety profile of oral propranolol in healthy children to be good."
29754273	Rivaroxaban	Liver Failure	1	0	0	0		Drug-induced liver failure due to rivaroxaban.	
29729202	Phenindione	Joint Diseases	1	1	1	1	0.0	Nonhemorrhagic joint disorders and vitamin K antagonists: an under-recognized adverse drug reaction?	Isolated arthralgia, without hemorrhagic side effect, exists and is considered as a very rare adverse drug reaction according to vitamin K antagonists' (VKAs) summary of product characteristics. Up to now, there are no literature reports of isolated, nonhemorrhagic joint complications in patients receiving VKAs. Hence, the objective of this study was to describe cases of VKA-related nonhemorrhagic joint disorders (fluindione, warfarin, and acenocoumarol) reported in the French Pharmacovigilance Database (FPVD). Sixty-one reports (male : female ratio, 1.18; median [interquartile range (IQR)] age: 60 [49-72]) were found. Fluindione, warfarin, and acenocoumarol were respectively suspected in 42, 12, and 7 cases. Arthralgia was reported in 47 cases (77%), arthritis in nine cases (15%), capsulitis in three cases (5%), and bursitis in two cases (3%). Although the joint symptoms mainly concerned the lower limbs, all types of joints were affected. Arthralgia was associated with myalgia in 14 cases and with tendinitis in three cases. The median (IQR) time interval between VKA introduction and arthralgia onset was 26 (10-98) days (range: 1-6935). VKA was withdrawn in 44 cases, and a decrease in the intensity of joint symptoms was observed in 30 cases. In three cases, reintroduction of the same VKA led to the recurrence of symptoms. In view of the large prescription of this drug class worldwide, patients and clinicians (and especially primary care physicians and geriatricians) should be aware of this possible adverse drug reaction when confronted with joint disorders in patients of all ages taking VKAs.
29429882	Mepivacaine	Urinary Retention	0	0	0	0		Mepivacaine Spinal Anesthesia Facilitates Rapid Recovery in Total Knee Arthroplasty Compared to Bupivacaine.	BACKGROUND: Mepivacaine as a spinal anesthetic for rapid recovery in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has not been assessed. The purpose of this study is to compare spinal mepivacaine vs bupivacaine for postoperative measures in patients undergoing primary TKA. METHODS: Retrospective review of a prospectively collected single-institution database was performed on 156 consecutive patients who underwent primary TKA. Fifty-three patients were administered mepivacaine and 103 patients were administered bupivacaine. Primary outcomes were urinary retention, length of stay, pain control, opioid consumption, and distance associated with physical therapy. Statistical analysis with univariate logistic regression was performed to evaluate the effect of anesthetic with primary outcomes. RESULTS: Patients undergoing TKA with mepivacaine had a shorter length of stay (28.1 +/- 11.2 vs 33.6 +/- 14.4 hours, P = .002) and fewer episodes of straight catheterization (3.8% vs 16.5%, P = .021) compared to bupivacaine. Patients administered mepivacaine exhibited slightly higher VAS pain scores and morphine consumption in the postanesthesia care unit (1.3 +/- 1.9 vs 0.5 +/- 1.3, P = .002; 2.2 +/- 3.3 vs 0.8 +/- 2.1 equivalents/h, P = .002), but otherwise exhibited no difference in VAS scores or morphine consumption afterwards. There was no need to convert to general anesthesia or transient neurologic symptom complication in either group. CONCLUSION: Mepivacaine for spinal anesthesia with TKA had adequate duration to complete the surgery and facilitated a more rapid recovery with less urinary complications and a shorter length of stay. Patients administered mepivacaine did not display worse pain control or transient neurologic symptoms afterwards.
29336319	Valacyclovir	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Acute renal injury induced by oral valacyclovir.	
29231783	Cyclophosphamide	Lethargy	1	0	0	0		Dexamethasone exacerbates cytotoxic chemotherapy induced lethargy and weight loss in female tumor free mice.	Cytotoxic chemotherapy can induce a systemic inflammatory response which has been proposed to be an underlying mechanism of cancer treatment related fatigue. Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid that has potent anti-inflammatory effects, is incorporated into chemotherapy regimens to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). The purpose of this study was to determine whether by suppressing cytotoxic chemotherapy-induced inflammation, dexamethasone could ameliorate chemotherapy induced fatigue/lethargy in tumor free mice. The effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on Cytoxan-Adriamycin (CA)-induced inflammation was assessed by measuring circulating levels of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 twenty-four-hours post CA injection. Decline in voluntary wheel running activity (VWRA) from baseline (used as a proxy for fatigue/lethargy), body weight and composition, and food intake were monitored in mice administered four cycles of CA every two weeks with or without DEX. CA increased circulating levels of IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 and caused a rapid decline in VWRA and body weight immediately following CA-injection. Although the acute CA-induced decline in VWRA and body weight was not evident in mice administered CA + DEX, DEX alone had a suppressive effect on VWRA, and body weight continued to decline in mice administered both CA and DEX while it returned to baseline in CA-treated mice. CA or DEX alone had no long term impact on VWRA but DEX exacerbated lethargy and weight loss in CA-treated mice. Despite dampening the systemic inflammatory response to chemotherapy, dexamethasone failed to ameliorate acute or long term chemotherapy related fatigue/lethargy. Our pre-clinical findings suggest that supportive therapies like dexamethasone used to acutely control nausea and vomiting in cancer patients may actually contribute to overall symptom burden in cancer patients.
29231783	Dexamethasone	Lethargy	1	0	0	0		Dexamethasone exacerbates cytotoxic chemotherapy induced lethargy and weight loss in female tumor free mice.	Cytotoxic chemotherapy can induce a systemic inflammatory response which has been proposed to be an underlying mechanism of cancer treatment related fatigue. Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid that has potent anti-inflammatory effects, is incorporated into chemotherapy regimens to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). The purpose of this study was to determine whether by suppressing cytotoxic chemotherapy-induced inflammation, dexamethasone could ameliorate chemotherapy induced fatigue/lethargy in tumor free mice. The effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on Cytoxan-Adriamycin (CA)-induced inflammation was assessed by measuring circulating levels of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 twenty-four-hours post CA injection. Decline in voluntary wheel running activity (VWRA) from baseline (used as a proxy for fatigue/lethargy), body weight and composition, and food intake were monitored in mice administered four cycles of CA every two weeks with or without DEX. CA increased circulating levels of IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 and caused a rapid decline in VWRA and body weight immediately following CA-injection. Although the acute CA-induced decline in VWRA and body weight was not evident in mice administered CA + DEX, DEX alone had a suppressive effect on VWRA, and body weight continued to decline in mice administered both CA and DEX while it returned to baseline in CA-treated mice. CA or DEX alone had no long term impact on VWRA but DEX exacerbated lethargy and weight loss in CA-treated mice. Despite dampening the systemic inflammatory response to chemotherapy, dexamethasone failed to ameliorate acute or long term chemotherapy related fatigue/lethargy. Our pre-clinical findings suggest that supportive therapies like dexamethasone used to acutely control nausea and vomiting in cancer patients may actually contribute to overall symptom burden in cancer patients.
29231783	Doxorubicin	Lethargy	1	0	0	0		Dexamethasone exacerbates cytotoxic chemotherapy induced lethargy and weight loss in female tumor free mice.	Cytotoxic chemotherapy can induce a systemic inflammatory response which has been proposed to be an underlying mechanism of cancer treatment related fatigue. Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid that has potent anti-inflammatory effects, is incorporated into chemotherapy regimens to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). The purpose of this study was to determine whether by suppressing cytotoxic chemotherapy-induced inflammation, dexamethasone could ameliorate chemotherapy induced fatigue/lethargy in tumor free mice. The effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on Cytoxan-Adriamycin (CA)-induced inflammation was assessed by measuring circulating levels of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 twenty-four-hours post CA injection. Decline in voluntary wheel running activity (VWRA) from baseline (used as a proxy for fatigue/lethargy), body weight and composition, and food intake were monitored in mice administered four cycles of CA every two weeks with or without DEX. CA increased circulating levels of IL-6, GCSF, KC, and MCP-1 and caused a rapid decline in VWRA and body weight immediately following CA-injection. Although the acute CA-induced decline in VWRA and body weight was not evident in mice administered CA + DEX, DEX alone had a suppressive effect on VWRA, and body weight continued to decline in mice administered both CA and DEX while it returned to baseline in CA-treated mice. CA or DEX alone had no long term impact on VWRA but DEX exacerbated lethargy and weight loss in CA-treated mice. Despite dampening the systemic inflammatory response to chemotherapy, dexamethasone failed to ameliorate acute or long term chemotherapy related fatigue/lethargy. Our pre-clinical findings suggest that supportive therapies like dexamethasone used to acutely control nausea and vomiting in cancer patients may actually contribute to overall symptom burden in cancer patients.
29121830	Capecitabine	Cerebellar Ataxia	1	1	0	1	1.0	Acute reversible toxic encephalopathy during capecitabine and oxaliplatin treatment.	INTRODUCTION: Capecitabine is a fluoropyrimidine commonly used in the treatment of colorectal cancer which may cause central nervous system toxicity, namely cerebellar dysfunction. CASE REPORT: We describe a 77-year-old man undergoing adjuvant treatment of colon cancer with capecitabine and oxaliplatin who presented with acute cerebellar ataxia and encephalopathy that progressed to coma. Diagnosis of toxic encephalopathy was made after the exclusion of alternative causes of neurological dysfunction and complete resolution of clinical findings with permanent discontinuation of chemotherapy. DISCUSSION: When patients with cancer develop symptoms and signs of central nervous dysfunction, metabolic and infectious causes plus tumor involvement of central nervous system must be sought. However, chemotherapy may also cause toxicity to the central nervous system. Capecitabine is no exception, although cerebellar dysfunction is rarely reported. CONCLUSION: Although rare, capecitabine-induced encephalopathy may be severe and physicians should be aware of this possible side effect.
29117788	Topiramate	Hypothermia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Recurrent Admissions for Hypothermia From Concomitant Topiramate and Phenobarbital: A Case Report.	INTRODUCTION: This article presents an additional case of concomitant topiramate and phenobarbital administration that resulted in 8 hospital admissions for hypothermia that resolved after discontinuation of phenobarbital. CASE: A 56-year-old white female with cerebral palsy and quadriplegia, epilepsy, and hypothyroidism was admitted to a community teaching hospital multiple times with documented hypothermia. These admissions followed a subsequent dose increase of topiramate in December 2014. In February 2015, the patient was admitted with 35 degrees C rectal temperature. Her 2 admissions in April were for hypothermia with temperatures of 34.6 degrees C and 33.6 degrees C, respectively. The patient had 5 other admissions with hypothermia through December 2015. All other causes of hypothermia were ruled out. The hypothermia resolved when phenobarbital was discontinued. DISCUSSION: A recent case series noted an association between phenobarbital and topiramate causing hypothermia. The patient's hypothermia developed while on concomitant phenobarbital and topiramate but only after an increase in topiramate. No other causes for hypothermia were found based upon physical examination or lab work. The Naranjo nomogram noted a probable causation. CONCLUSION: This case report points to an association of hypothermia with concomitant topiramate and phenobarbital with resolution after phenobarbital discontinuation. Improvement after discontinuation of phenobarbital seems to support a drug-effect relationship.
29099621	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Trichotillomania	1	0	0	0		Atomoxetine-Related Trichotillomania in a Boy with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder.	
28952146	Erlotinib Hydrochloride	Facial Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor-induced papulopustular eruption successfully treated with low-dose oral dapsone.	
28952146	Erlotinib Hydrochloride	Scalp Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor-induced papulopustular eruption successfully treated with low-dose oral dapsone.	
28665688	Aripiprazole	Epistaxis	1	0	0	0		Epistaxis as an Unexpected Side Effect of Aripiprazole and Risperidone Treatment in Two Children with Two Different Psychiatric Diagnosis.	
28613939	Guanfacine	Hypertension	1	0	0	0		Paradoxical Hypertensive Urgency in a Child After Initiation of Guanfacine.	
28146612	Quetiapine Fumarate	Hip Fractures	1	1	0	0	0.0	Antipsychotic Use and the Risk of Hip Fracture Among Community-Dwelling Persons With Alzheimer's Disease.	OBJECTIVE: To study whether antipsychotic use is associated with a risk of hip fracture among individuals with Alzheimer's disease and to compare the risk according to the duration of use and the 2 most frequently used antipsychotics. METHODS: The MEDALZ (Medication and Alzheimer's disease) cohort consisted of community-dwelling Finnish persons with clinically verified diagnoses of Alzheimer's disease, including 70,718 persons newly diagnosed according to NINCDS-ADRDA and DSM-IV criteria between 2005 and 2011. Antipsychotic use was modeled from prescription register data, and hip fractures (ICD-10 S72.0-72.2) were identified from the Hospital Discharge Register. The incidence of hip fractures was compared between new users and nonusers of antipsychotics, among various time durations of antipsychotic use, and between quetiapine users and risperidone users. RESULTS: Antipsychotic use versus nonuse was associated with an increased risk of hip fractures (adjusted hazard ratio [HR] = 1.54; 95% CI, 1.39-1.70). The risk was increased from the first days of use and remained increased thereafter. Quetiapine was associated with a similar risk of hip fracture as risperidone for the first 2.7 years of use (adjusted HR = 0.98; 95% CI, 0.79-1.21). Compared with low-dose (</= 0.5 mg) risperidone use, higher risperidone doses (> 0.5 mg) were associated with a higher risk of hip fracture (adjusted HR = 1.72; 95% CI, 1.32-2.24). CONCLUSIONS: Since the risk of hip fracture was increased from the first days of use, our results confirm the need for setting a high threshold for initiating antipsychotic use among persons with Alzheimer's disease to avoid serious adverse events. If antipsychotic use is initiated, the duration of use should be limited, as the risk of hip fracture does not attenuate with long-term use.
27828706	Trazodone	Anorexia	1	0	0	0		Fluoxetine and Trazodone Combination Pharmacotherapy Resulting in Severe Irritability, Anger, Anxiety, and Anorexia: Probable Adverse Drug Interaction.	
27210076	Ursodeoxycholic Acid	Hyperbilirubinemia	0	0	0	0		Optimization of phenylhydrazine induced hyperbilirubinemia in experimental rabbit.	Induction of hyperbilirubinemia in experimental rabbits by phenylhydrazine was optimized in terms of dose, dose interval and number of doses using response surface methodology. Central Composite Design was employed using five levels for each of the three input variables. Degree of hyperbilirubinemia was measured in terms of bilirubin level in serum of animals. A dose dependent significant elevation (P<0.05) of total serum bilirubin level was observed which was optimized by using eight factorial, six axial and six central points as suggested by experimental design. Optimum levels of phenylhydrazine dose, total number of doses and a dose interval to achieve maximum elevation (4.06 mg/dl(-1)) of total serum bilirubin were found to be 11.56 mg/kg(-1) body weight, 8 and 24.65 h, respectively. The induction procedure was validated by performing five replicate experiments on a group of five animals which showed 3.56 +/- 0.47 mg/kg(-1) body weight elevation in total serum bilirubin level.
27550304	Rituximab	Neoplasm Recurrence, Local	0	0	0	0		The incidence of cancer in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and a prior malignancy who receive TNF inhibitors or rituximab: results from the British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register-Rheumatoid Arthritis.	OBJECTIVE: To explore the influence of TNF inhibitor (TNFi) therapy and rituximab (RTX) upon the incidence of cancer in patients with RA and prior malignancy. METHODS: The study population comprised RA subjects with a prior malignancy reported to the UK national cancer registers, recruited to the British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register from 2001 to 2013. We compared rates of first incident malignancy in a TNFi cohort, RTX cohort and synthetic DMARDs (sDMARD) cohort. RESULTS: We identified 425 patients with a prior malignancy from 18 000 RA patients in the study. Of these, 101 patients developed a new malignancy. The rates of incident malignancy were 33.3 events/1000 person-years (py) in the TNFi cohort, 24.7 events/1000 py in the RTX cohort and 53.8 events/1000 py in the sDMARD cohort. The age- and gender-adjusted hazard ratio was 0.55 (95% CI: 0.35, 0.86) for the TNFi cohort and 0.43 (95% CI: 0.10, 1.80) for the RTX cohort in comparison with the sDMARDs cohort. The 17.0% of patients in the sDMARDs cohort had a recurrence of the same cancer in comparison with the 12.8% and the 4.3% in the TNFi and RTX cohorts, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Although numbers are still low, it seems that patients with RA and prior malignancy selected to receive either a TNFi or RTX in the UK do not have an increased risk of future incident malignancy.
29900541	Human Growth Hormone	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Lichenoid drug eruption in a child with Turner syndrome: A rare adverse reaction of recombinant human growth hormone.	
29797309	Nivolumab	Eosinophilia	1	0	0	0		Eosinophilic fasciitis and lichen sclerosus in a patient treated with nivolumab.	
29797309	Nivolumab	Fasciitis	1	0	0	0		Eosinophilic fasciitis and lichen sclerosus in a patient treated with nivolumab.	
29304236	Triamcinolone	Spinal Fractures	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Effect of Epidural Steroid Injections on Bone Mineral Density and Vertebral Fracture Risk: A Systematic Review and Critical Appraisal of Current Literature.	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this paper is to review the available literature investigating the effect of epidural steroid injections (ESIs) on bone mineral density (BMD) and vertebral fracture risk. STUDY DESIGN: Systematic review of current literature. METHODS: The sources of the data were PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Scopus. Papers included in the review were original research articles in peer-reviewed journals. RESULTS: A total of 7,233 patients (eight studies) with a mean age ranging between 49 and 74 years and an average follow-up between six and 60 months were studied. Steroids that were used included triamcinolone, dexamethasone, and methylprednisolone (MP), with a mean number of injections ranging from one to 14.7 and an average cumulative dose in MP equivalents between 80 and 8,130 mg. Epidural steroids were associated with significantly decreased BMD in four out of six included studies, and with increased risk of vertebral fracture in one out of two included studies. Significant reductions in BMD were associated with a cumulative MP dose of 200 mg over a one-year period and 400 mg over three years, but not in doses of less than 200 mg of MP equivalents for postmenopausal women and at least 3 g for healthy men. The risk of osteopenia and osteoporosis was lower in patients who were receiving anti-osteoporotic medication during the treatment course. CONCLUSIONS: ESIs should be recommended with caution, especially in patients at risk for osteoporotic fractures, such as women of postmenopausal age. Anti-osteoporotic medication might be considered prior to ESI.
28965701	Manganese	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Environmental exposure to manganese in air: Tremor, motor and cognitive symptom profiles.	BACKGROUND: Excessive exposure to manganese (Mn) may cause parkinsonian-like motor and tremor symptoms and adverse cognitive effects, including problems with executive functioning (EF), resembling those found in later-stage Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies seeking to differentiate PD patients into subgroups with associated cognitive and functional outcomes using motor and tremor symptoms identified tremor-dominant (TD) and non-tremor dominant (NTD) subtypes. It is unclear whether differing patterns of pathophysiology and symptoms exist in Mn neurotoxicity, as they do in PD. METHODS: Residents of East Liverpool (n=83) and Marietta, OH (n=99) exposed to chronic (>10years) environmental Mn through industrial pollution were administered neuropsychological measures and a physician-rated scale of movement-disorder symptoms. Two-step cluster analysis was used to group residents based on tremor symptoms, bradykinesia/rigidity symptoms, gait disturbance, and executive function. Cluster membership was validated using modeled air-Mn exposure and a computerized tremor measure. RESULTS: Elevated tremor and motor symptoms and executive dysfunction were observed, and TD and NTD symptom clusters were identified. Two additional clusters were also identified: Executive Dysfunction and Normal Functioning. The NTD residents, with elevated levels of gait disturbance and other movement disorder symptoms, did not evidence EF impairment, as predicted. Instead, residents with EF impairment formed their own cluster, and were relatively free of movement disorder symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: Results resemble reports in the PD literature with TD and NTD clusters identified, but executive dysfunction did not cluster with NTD symptoms. PD and Mn exposure likely have differing pathophysiology and developmental courses, and therefore different symptom patterns, even when similar symptoms are present.
28965701	Manganese	Hypokinesia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Environmental exposure to manganese in air: Tremor, motor and cognitive symptom profiles.	BACKGROUND: Excessive exposure to manganese (Mn) may cause parkinsonian-like motor and tremor symptoms and adverse cognitive effects, including problems with executive functioning (EF), resembling those found in later-stage Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies seeking to differentiate PD patients into subgroups with associated cognitive and functional outcomes using motor and tremor symptoms identified tremor-dominant (TD) and non-tremor dominant (NTD) subtypes. It is unclear whether differing patterns of pathophysiology and symptoms exist in Mn neurotoxicity, as they do in PD. METHODS: Residents of East Liverpool (n=83) and Marietta, OH (n=99) exposed to chronic (>10years) environmental Mn through industrial pollution were administered neuropsychological measures and a physician-rated scale of movement-disorder symptoms. Two-step cluster analysis was used to group residents based on tremor symptoms, bradykinesia/rigidity symptoms, gait disturbance, and executive function. Cluster membership was validated using modeled air-Mn exposure and a computerized tremor measure. RESULTS: Elevated tremor and motor symptoms and executive dysfunction were observed, and TD and NTD symptom clusters were identified. Two additional clusters were also identified: Executive Dysfunction and Normal Functioning. The NTD residents, with elevated levels of gait disturbance and other movement disorder symptoms, did not evidence EF impairment, as predicted. Instead, residents with EF impairment formed their own cluster, and were relatively free of movement disorder symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: Results resemble reports in the PD literature with TD and NTD clusters identified, but executive dysfunction did not cluster with NTD symptoms. PD and Mn exposure likely have differing pathophysiology and developmental courses, and therefore different symptom patterns, even when similar symptoms are present.
30480761	Mefloquine	Pregnancy Complications	0	0	0	0		Mefloquine for preventing malaria in pregnant women.	BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization recommends intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy (IPTp) with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for malaria for all women who live in moderate to high malaria transmission areas in Africa. However, parasite resistance to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine has been increasing steadily in some areas of the region. Moreover, HIV-infected women on cotrimoxazole prophylaxis cannot receive sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine because of potential drug interactions. Thus, there is an urgent need to identify alternative drugs for prevention of malaria in pregnancy. One such candidate is mefloquine. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of mefloquine for preventing malaria in pregnant women, specifically, to evaluate:* the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of mefloquine for preventing malaria in pregnant women; and* the impact of HIV status, gravidity, and use of insecticide-treated nets on the effects of mefloquine. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, Embase, Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS), the Malaria in Pregnancy Library, and two trial registers up to 31 January 2018. In addition, we checked references and contacted study authors to identify additional studies, unpublished data, confidential reports, and raw data from published trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized and quasi-randomized controlled trials comparing mefloquine IPT or mefloquine prophylaxis against placebo, no treatment, or an alternative drug regimen. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened all records identified by the search strategy, applied inclusion criteria, assessed risk of bias, and extracted data. We contacted trial authors to ask for additional information when required. Dichotomous outcomes were compared using risk ratios (RRs), count outcomes as incidence rate ratios (IRRs), and continuous outcomes using mean differences (MDs). We have presented all measures of effect with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach for the following main outcomes of analysis: maternal peripheral parasitaemia at delivery, clinical malaria episodes during pregnancy, placental malaria, maternal anaemia at delivery, low birth weight, spontaneous abortions and stillbirths, dizziness, and vomiting. MAIN RESULTS: Six trials conducted between 1987 and 2013 from Thailand (1), Benin (3), Gabon (1), Tanzania (1), Mozambique (2), and Kenya (1) that included 8192 pregnant women met our inclusion criteria.Two trials (with 6350 HIV-uninfected pregnant women) compared two IPTp doses of mefloquine with two IPTp doses of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. Two other trials involving 1363 HIV-infected women compared three IPTp doses of mefloquine plus cotrimoxazole with cotrimoxazole. One trial in 140 HIV-infected women compared three doses of IPTp-mefloquine with cotrimoxazole. Finally, one trial enrolling 339 of unknown HIV status compared mefloquine prophylaxis with placebo.Study participants included women of all gravidities and of all ages (four trials) or > 18 years (two trials). Gestational age at recruitment was > 20 weeks (one trial), between 16 and 28 weeks (three trials), or </= 28 weeks (two trials). Two of the six trials blinded participants and personnel, and only one had low risk of detection bias for safety outcomes.When compared with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, IPTp-mefloquine results in a 35% reduction in maternal peripheral parasitaemia at delivery (RR 0.65, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.86; 5455 participants, 2 studies; high-certainty evidence) but may have little or no effect on placental malaria infections (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.58 to 1.86; 4668 participants, 2 studies; low-certainty evidence). Mefloquine results in little or no difference in the incidence of clinical malaria episodes during pregnancy (incidence rate ratio (IRR) 0.83, 95% CI 0.65 to 1.05, 2 studies; high-certainty evidence). Mefloquine decreased maternal anaemia at delivery (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.94; 5469 participants, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence). Data show little or no difference in the proportions of low birth weight infants (RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.78 to 1.17; 5641 participants, 2 studies; high-certainty evidence) and in stillbirth and spontaneous abortion rates (RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.58; 6219 participants, 2 studies; I(2) statistic = 0%; moderate-certainty evidence). IPTp-mefloquine increased drug-related vomiting (RR 4.76, 95% CI 4.13 to 5.49; 6272 participants, 2 studies; high-certainty evidence) and dizziness (RR 4.21, 95% CI 3.36 to 5.27; participants = 6272, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence).When compared with cotrimoxazole, IPTp-mefloquine plus cotrimoxazole probably results in a 48% reduction in maternal peripheral parasitaemia at delivery (RR 0.52, 95% CI 0.30 to 0.93; 989 participants, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence) and a 72% reduction in placental malaria (RR 0.28, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.57; 977 participants, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence) but has little or no effect on the incidence of clinical malaria episodes during pregnancy (IRR 0.76, 95% CI 0.33 to 1.76, 1 study; high-certainty evidence) and probably no effect on maternal anaemia at delivery (RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.73 to 1.20; 1197 participants, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence), low birth weight rates (RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.60; 1220 participants, 2 studies; moderate-certainty evidence), and rates of spontaneous abortion and stillbirth (RR 1.12, 95% CI 0.42 to 2.98; 1347 participants, 2 studies; very low-certainty evidence). Mefloquine was associated with higher risks of drug-related vomiting (RR 7.95, 95% CI 4.79 to 13.18; 1055 participants, one study; high-certainty evidence) and dizziness (RR 3.94, 95% CI 2.85 to 5.46; 1055 participants, 1 study; high-certainty evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Mefloquine was more efficacious than sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine in HIV-uninfected women or daily cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in HIV-infected pregnant women for prevention of malaria infection and was associated with lower risk of maternal anaemia, no adverse effects on pregnancy outcomes (such as stillbirths and abortions), and no effects on low birth weight and prematurity. However, the high proportion of mefloquine-related adverse events constitutes an important barrier to its effectiveness for malaria preventive treatment in pregnant women.
30353379	Aluminum Chloride	Alzheimer Disease	0	0	0	0		Neuroprotective, antidiabetic and antioxidant effect of Hedera nepalensis and lupeol against STZ + AlCl(3) induced rats model.	PURPOSE: This study was aimed to evaluate the effect of Hedera nepalensis crude extract (HNC) and its isolated compound lupeol on antioxidant defence system, biochemical parameters and behavioural indices of Alzheimer disease generated in diabetic rats. METHODS: To evaluate the effect of the plant extract and lupeol, symptoms of Alzheimer and diabetes were induced in rats by STZ + AlCl(3) treatment. Glucose level was measured with glucometer followed by antioxidant and biochemical assessment of the treated and untreated animals. Behavioural response of the rats was determined by Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) test and Morris Water Maze (MWM) test followed by determination of brain neurotransmitters by HPLC. RESULTS: HNC significantly reduced blood glucose level in a time dependent manner and elevated liver function markers were significantly (P < 0.05) reinstated to normal levels. HNC showed increase in level of catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH). HPLC quantification revealed that HNC treatment led to significant (p < 0.001) elevation in the level of neurotransmitters (dopamine and serotonin) in the midbrain region as compared to Alzheimer control (AC) group. EPM and MWM test showed decrease in cognitive and memory impairment in a rat group treated with HNC as compared to AC group. CONCLUSION: Overall, results showed that H. nepalensis has therapeutic potential for the treatment of diseases like Alzheimer and diabetes. Graphical abstract Therapeutic effect of Hedera nepalensis K. Koch and lupeol against STZ + AICI(3) induced diabetic rats model.
29772097	Bevacizumab	Cerebral Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Would intravitreal bevacizumab injection increase risk of cerebral infarction?	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although studies have evaluated the relationship between intravitreal bevacizumab (IVB) injection and cerebral infarction (CI), the effects of IVB on CI are still not clear. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of IVB injection on patients with CI with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed patients with AMD who received IVB injections for 1 year and determined the incidence of CI within 60 days after IVB injection to analyze the possible association between IVB and CI. RESULTS: A total of 263 patients were enrolled over a 12-month period. Six patients (2.28%) were diagnosed with CI within 2 months after receiving an IVB injection. The incidence of CI in patients of 75-84 years of age was 6.38%. These results showed a higher incidence for patients with IVB injections than the results of previous epidemiological studies (0.13% for all age groups, 1.68% for patients of 75-84 years of age). All CIs occurred 21-53 days after the IVB injection (mean: 39.33 +/- 14.65 days). Logistic regression analyses showed that age and CI history were factors associated with CI. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with IVB might be an independent risk factor for CI. These results are useful for planning treatment strategies for patients with AMD and for prevention of CI.
29359414	Cadmium	Cleft Lip	1	1	0	0	0.0	Maternal occupational cadmium exposure and nonsyndromic orofacial clefts.	BACKGROUND: Cigarette smoking is a well-studied risk factor for orofacial clefts (OFCs). Little is known about which constituents in cigarette smoke contribute to this teratogenicity in humans. One constituent, cadmium, has been associated with OFCs in animal studies; in humans, the role of maternal cadmium exposure on OFCs, independent of cigarette smoke, is unclear. In particular, the relation between maternal occupational cadmium exposure and OFCs is largely unexplored. METHODS: Using data from a large, population-based case-control study, we compared expert rater assessed maternal occupational cadmium exposure from self-reported occupational histories during the period 1 month before through 3 months after conception between OFC cases (n = 1,185) and unaffected controls (n = 2,832). Multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to estimate adjusted odds ratios (aORs) and 95% confidence intervals for any (yes/no) and cumulative (no, low, high exposure) occupational cadmium exposures and all OFCs, cleft lip +/- cleft palate (CL/P) and cleft palate (CP). RESULTS: Overall, 45 mothers (cases = 13, controls = 32) were rated as having occupational cadmium exposure. Comparing all OFCs to controls, we observed inverse, nonsignificant aORs for any or low exposure, and positive, nonsignificant aORs for high exposure. Where data were available, aORs for CL/P and CP tended to parallel those for all OFCs. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study to specifically examine maternal occupational cadmium exposure and OFCs, using expert rater exposure assessment. The small numbers of exposed mothers observed, however, led to imprecise estimates. Continued research using more detailed occupational exposure assessment and increased sample sizes is recommended.
28831172	Palmitic Acid	Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease	1	0	0	0		Pioglitazone Enhances Cytosolic Lipolysis, beta-oxidation and Autophagy to Ameliorate Hepatic Steatosis.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease closely contributes to the development of obesity and insulin resistance. Even though pioglitazone has been reported to effectively lessen hepatic steatosis in human studies, its molecular mechanism remains unclear. This study is designed to investigate the regulation of cytosolic lipolysis, beta-oxidation and autophagy by pioglitazone in a mice model of high fat diet (HFD) and cell model incubated with palmitic acid. Our results revealed hepatic steatosis was apparently induced by HFD and it was significantly reversed by pioglitazone. The serum insulin and hepatic triglyceride content was significantly decreased by co-administered pioglitazone with HFD. Hepatic expression of cytosolic-lipolysis related proteins (ATGL, HSL), beta-oxidation (CPT-1A) and autophagy-related proteins (ATG7, LC3, LAL) was significantly enhanced by pioglitazone. Knockdown PPARalpha/PPARgamma in AML12 cells significantly and proportionally reduced the expressions of ATGL, CPT-1A and LC3II, which was induced by pioglitazone. Furthermore, facilitation of the autophagic flux by pioglitazone was obviously blocked by lysosomal inhibitor, leupeptin, to demonstrate accumulation of the LC3II and intracellular lipid in AML12 cells. Our results demonstrated that pioglitazone attenuating the hepatic steatosis may be mediated by enhancing cytosolic lipolysis, beta-oxidation and autophagy in a PPARalpha and PPARgamma dependent manner.
30677265	Carbidopa	Bipolar Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Man Made Manic: Levodopa-Carbidopa-Induced Mania in Traumatic Brain Injury.	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) has had increased notoriety in light of chronic traumatic encephalopathy in professional sports. However, despite the increased rate at which mood disorders affect this population, there remains little information on management of these disorders. TBI has also been implicated in the development of Parkinson disease, increasing the likelihood that patients may be treated with dopaminergic agents. Management of coexisting pathologies can become challenging, especially when confounded by medication side effects. A case is presented of a 58-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital in a manic state 15 years after having suffered a closed head injury. Several psychiatric admissions during the past 2 years were noted, with various diagnoses including different iterations of bipolar disorder. Among his medications, levodopa-carbidopa was present for an unsubstantiated Parkinson disease diagnosis. His mania resolved after discontinuation of the agent. This case is presented with a review of the relevant literature pertaining to the use of levodopa-carbidopa in this context, the use of other dopaminergic agents, and a biological hypothesis for the potential increased likelihood of manic symptoms in TBI patients who receive levodopa-carbidopa. Currently, there is a lack of research in this area, which emphasizes a need to review treatment guidelines for Parkinson disease patients with TBI.
30286103	Loperamide	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Is there such a thing as a 'lope' dope? Analysis of loperamide-related European Medicines Agency (EMA) pharmacovigilance database reports.	BACKGROUND: Among over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, loperamide has recently emerged for its potential of misuse and cardiotoxicity issues. Hence, we aimed here at assessing the loperamide-related cases being reported to the EMA's EudraVigilance (EV) database. METHODS: All spontaneous EV reports relating to loperamide misuse/abuse/dependence/withdrawal and cardiotoxicity issues were here retrieved, performing a descriptive analysis. FINDINGS: During the years 2005-2017, EV collected a number of 1,983 (out of a total of 7,895; 25.11%) loperamide-related misuse/abuse/dependence/withdrawal adverse drug reaction (ADR) reports, with a progressively increasing trend since 2014. Most cases were classified as drug use disorder (37.4%) or intentional overdose (25.4%). Loperamide was used on its own in 41.9% of cases; remaining, polydrug, cases included antidepressants; benzodiazepines; and other OTCs. Some 1,085 (1,085/7,895 = 13.7%) cardiovascular ADRs were reported, being conduction abnormalities and EKG alterations the most frequently identified. CONCLUSIONS: EV data may support the levels of concern relating to loperamide potential of abuse and associated cardiotoxicity issues.
29676440	Dexamethasone	Febrile Neutropenia	0	0	0	1		An effective modestly intensive re-induction regimen with bortezomib in relapsed or refractory paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.	This trial explored the efficacy of re-induction chemotherapy including bortezomib in paediatric relapsed/refractory acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. Patients were randomized 1:1 to bortezomib (1.3 mg/m(2) /dose) administered early or late to a dexamethasone and vincristine backbone. Both groups did not differ regarding peripheral blast count on day 8, the primary endpoint. After cycle 1, 8 of 25 (32%) patients achieved complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery, 7 (28%) a partial remission and 10 had treatment failure. Most common grade 3-4 toxicities were febrile neutropenia (31%) and pain (17%). Bortezomib was safely combined with vincristine. Bortezomib rarely penetrated the cerebrospinal fluid.
29521631	Metformin	Pemphigoid, Bullous	1	0	0	0		Bullous pemphigoid in a mother (DQB1*03:01:01) and daughter (DRB1*11:01) receiving antidiabetic drugs.	
29521631	Vildagliptin	Pemphigoid, Bullous	1	0	0	0		Bullous pemphigoid in a mother (DQB1*03:01:01) and daughter (DRB1*11:01) receiving antidiabetic drugs.	
29392450	Artesunate	Nausea	0	0	0	0		A phase I study of intravenous artesunate in patients with advanced solid tumor malignancies.	PURPOSE: The artemisinin class of anti-malarial drugs has shown significant anti-cancer activity in pre-clinical models. Proposed anti-cancer mechanisms include DNA damage, inhibition of angiogenesis, TRAIL-mediated apoptosis, and inhibition of signaling pathways. We performed a phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of intravenous artesunate (IV AS). METHODS: Patients were enrolled in an accelerated titration dose escalation study with planned dose levels of 8, 12, 18, 25, 34 and 45 mg/kg given on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. Toxicities were assessed using the NCI CTCAE (ver. 4.0), and response was assessed using RECIST criteria (version 1.1). Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies were performed during cycle 1. RESULTS: A total of 19 pts were enrolled, 18 of whom were evaluable for toxicity and 15 were evaluable for efficacy. DLTs were seen at dosages of 12 (1 of 6 patients), 18 (1 of 6) and 25 mg/kg (2 of 2), and were neutropenic fever (Gr 4), hypersensitivity reaction (Gr 3), liver function test abnormalities (Gr 3/4) along with neutropenic fever, and nausea/vomiting (Gr 3) despite supportive care. The MTD was determined to be 18 mg/kg. No responses were observed, while four patients had stable disease, including three with prolonged stable disease for 8, 10, and 11 cycles, for a disease control rate of 27%. PK parameters of AS and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), correlated with dose. CONCLUSION: The MTD of intravenous artesunate is 18 mg/kg on this schedule. Treatment was well tolerated. Modest clinical activity was seen in this pre-treated population. CLINICALTRIALS. GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT02353026.
29392450	Artesunate	Vomiting	0	0	0	0		A phase I study of intravenous artesunate in patients with advanced solid tumor malignancies.	PURPOSE: The artemisinin class of anti-malarial drugs has shown significant anti-cancer activity in pre-clinical models. Proposed anti-cancer mechanisms include DNA damage, inhibition of angiogenesis, TRAIL-mediated apoptosis, and inhibition of signaling pathways. We performed a phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of intravenous artesunate (IV AS). METHODS: Patients were enrolled in an accelerated titration dose escalation study with planned dose levels of 8, 12, 18, 25, 34 and 45 mg/kg given on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. Toxicities were assessed using the NCI CTCAE (ver. 4.0), and response was assessed using RECIST criteria (version 1.1). Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies were performed during cycle 1. RESULTS: A total of 19 pts were enrolled, 18 of whom were evaluable for toxicity and 15 were evaluable for efficacy. DLTs were seen at dosages of 12 (1 of 6 patients), 18 (1 of 6) and 25 mg/kg (2 of 2), and were neutropenic fever (Gr 4), hypersensitivity reaction (Gr 3), liver function test abnormalities (Gr 3/4) along with neutropenic fever, and nausea/vomiting (Gr 3) despite supportive care. The MTD was determined to be 18 mg/kg. No responses were observed, while four patients had stable disease, including three with prolonged stable disease for 8, 10, and 11 cycles, for a disease control rate of 27%. PK parameters of AS and its active metabolite, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), correlated with dose. CONCLUSION: The MTD of intravenous artesunate is 18 mg/kg on this schedule. Treatment was well tolerated. Modest clinical activity was seen in this pre-treated population. CLINICALTRIALS. GOV IDENTIFIER: NCT02353026.
29383482	Docetaxel	Anorexia	1	0	0	0		Docetaxel, cisplatin and S-1 (DCS) combination chemotherapy for gastric cancer patients with peritoneal metastasis: a retrospective study.	PURPOSE: Peritoneal metastasis (PM) in advanced or recurrent gastric cancer (AGC) is the most frequent cause of death from this disease. However, current treatments remain unsatisfactory. We previously conducted studies of docetaxel, cisplatin and S-1 (DCS) combination chemotherapy for AGC. The aim of this study was to investigate the benefits and tolerability of DCS in PM patients. METHODS: Patients were divided into three groups: patients without PM (non-PM); PM patients without ascites, or mild to moderate ascites (None-Mod); and PM patients with massive ascites (Massive). Patients received oral S-1 (40 mg/m(2) b.i.d.) on days 1-14, and intravenous cisplatin (60 mg/m(2)) and docetaxel (50-60 mg/m(2)) on day 8 every 3 weeks. Drug exposure, adverse events, tumor response, progression-free and overall survival (OS) rates were evaluated. RESULTS: Of the 111 AGC patients who received DCS as first-line therapy, 37 cases had complicated PM, 15 of whom displayed massive ascites. The response rate for PM patients was 81.5%. Drug exposure and toxicities were not meaningfully different among the groups. The MSTs were also similar: 22.6 months for the non-PM, 21.7 months for the None-Mod PM, and 16.8 months for the Massive, respectively. Ten (27.0%) patients with PM achieved downstaging and underwent curative surgery, subsequently demonstrating an excellent MST of 28.0 months. An independent prognostic factor for OS, as revealed by multivariate analyses. was a good performance status. CONCLUSION: DCS is feasible and efficacious for AGC with PM, especially when patients present with a good PS.
29383482	Docetaxel	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Docetaxel, cisplatin and S-1 (DCS) combination chemotherapy for gastric cancer patients with peritoneal metastasis: a retrospective study.	PURPOSE: Peritoneal metastasis (PM) in advanced or recurrent gastric cancer (AGC) is the most frequent cause of death from this disease. However, current treatments remain unsatisfactory. We previously conducted studies of docetaxel, cisplatin and S-1 (DCS) combination chemotherapy for AGC. The aim of this study was to investigate the benefits and tolerability of DCS in PM patients. METHODS: Patients were divided into three groups: patients without PM (non-PM); PM patients without ascites, or mild to moderate ascites (None-Mod); and PM patients with massive ascites (Massive). Patients received oral S-1 (40 mg/m(2) b.i.d.) on days 1-14, and intravenous cisplatin (60 mg/m(2)) and docetaxel (50-60 mg/m(2)) on day 8 every 3 weeks. Drug exposure, adverse events, tumor response, progression-free and overall survival (OS) rates were evaluated. RESULTS: Of the 111 AGC patients who received DCS as first-line therapy, 37 cases had complicated PM, 15 of whom displayed massive ascites. The response rate for PM patients was 81.5%. Drug exposure and toxicities were not meaningfully different among the groups. The MSTs were also similar: 22.6 months for the non-PM, 21.7 months for the None-Mod PM, and 16.8 months for the Massive, respectively. Ten (27.0%) patients with PM achieved downstaging and underwent curative surgery, subsequently demonstrating an excellent MST of 28.0 months. An independent prognostic factor for OS, as revealed by multivariate analyses. was a good performance status. CONCLUSION: DCS is feasible and efficacious for AGC with PM, especially when patients present with a good PS.
30679413	Ipilimumab	Adrenal Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Case of Acute Exacerbation of Chronic Adrenal Insufficiency Due to Ipilimumab Treatment for Advanced Melanoma.	BACKGROUND Ipilimumab is a therapeutic human monoclonal antibody that targets the T-cell inhibitory molecule, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4), and is classified as an immune checkpoint inhibitor that has been shown to improve prognosis in patients with advanced melanoma. However, several immune-related adverse events have been reported to be associated with ipilimumab Treatment. A case of acute exacerbation of chronic adrenal insufficiency is presented that highlights that glucocorticoid dosage for patients undergoing steroid treatment at the time of ipilimumab treatment has yet to be established. CASE REPORT A 50-year-old Japanese woman was diagnosed with malignant melanoma on the sole of her right foot. During her second course of ipilimumab treatment, she developed acute adrenal insufficiency caused by isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) deficiency, which required treatment with oral hydrocortisone. However, the symptoms of her adrenal insufficiency worsened, and she commenced treatment with 12 courses of nivolumab, a therapeutic human monoclonal antibody that blocks programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) on the surface of T-cells. She did not require corticosteroid support during nivolumab treatment. CONCLUSIONS This case report highlights the risk of exacerbating adrenal insufficiency during treatment with ipilimumab. The differences in clinical outcome in this patient between ipilimumab and nivolumab treatment might be explained by the different mechanisms between ipilimumab and nivolumab on immune function.
30600312	Terlipressin	Cyanosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Terlipressin-Induced Peripheral Cyanosis in a Patient with Liver Cirrhosis and Hepatorenal Syndrome.	BACKGROUND Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS), which is a type of functional renal impairment, is one of the most serious complications in patients with liver cirrhosis. Terlipressin can induce splanchnic vasoconstriction, which increases the renal blood flow and has beneficial effects on HRS. However, terlipressin administration may cause serious ischemic complications such as skin ischemia, peripheral gangrene, and ischemic bowel necrosis. Here, we report a case of peripheral cyanosis following terlipressin administration in a cirrhotic patient with HRS. CASE REPORT The patient was a 65-year-old male. He was considered to have type-1 HRS, and thus, terlipressin was administered. However, peripheral cyanosis involving the fingers, toes, area around an umbilical hernia, and scrotum was noted. Thus, terlipressin administration was discontinued. Subsequently, his condition rapidly improved. CONCLUSIONS We reported a case of peripheral cyanosis following terlipressin administration, which resolved after discontinuation of terlipressin administration. It is important to recognize the early signs of side effects and discontinue the administration of the suspected drug immediately.
30573724	Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination	Skin Ulcer	1	1	0	0	0.0	Stevens Johnson Syndrome with Vaginal Pain and Lesions as Initial Presentation.	BACKGROUND Stevens Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are causes of rare but life-threatening emergencies characterized by desquamation of the skin and mucosa. As SJS most commonly presents with skin rash followed by mucosal involvement, we present a case of vulvovaginal lesions as the initial presentation with progression to SJS after re-exposure to the culprit drug. CASE REPORT A 27-year-old female with acute cystitis was given trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. After 2 days, she reported vaginal pain. Three days later, she was hospitalized with vulvovaginal ulcerations and restarted on trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, leading to worsening vaginal lesions with rapid desquamation of conjunctival and oropharyngeal involvement. Biopsies of arm lesions revealed SJS. CONCLUSIONS It is important to recognize SJS as a rare but life-threatening cause of vulvovaginal ulceration, as early diagnosis is vital for successful treatment.
30573724	Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination	Vulvar Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Stevens Johnson Syndrome with Vaginal Pain and Lesions as Initial Presentation.	BACKGROUND Stevens Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are causes of rare but life-threatening emergencies characterized by desquamation of the skin and mucosa. As SJS most commonly presents with skin rash followed by mucosal involvement, we present a case of vulvovaginal lesions as the initial presentation with progression to SJS after re-exposure to the culprit drug. CASE REPORT A 27-year-old female with acute cystitis was given trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. After 2 days, she reported vaginal pain. Three days later, she was hospitalized with vulvovaginal ulcerations and restarted on trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, leading to worsening vaginal lesions with rapid desquamation of conjunctival and oropharyngeal involvement. Biopsies of arm lesions revealed SJS. CONCLUSIONS It is important to recognize SJS as a rare but life-threatening cause of vulvovaginal ulceration, as early diagnosis is vital for successful treatment.
30551401	Glucose	Cardiomegaly	0	0	0	0		EETs/PPARs activation together mediates the preventive effect of naringenin in high glucose-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.	BACKGROUND: Cardiac hypertrophy is a key pathological process in the context of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Naringenin exhibits multiple pharmacological activities, but the effect of naringenin on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy under diabetic conditions is still far from clear. METHODS: Cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was induced by high glucose (HG, glucose at 25.5 mmol/L) in H9c2 cells, which was determined by cell surface area, protein content and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) mRNA expression. The effect of naringenin on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was observed and its mechanisms were investigated by administration with various inhibitors on epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). The level of 14,15-EET was measured by ELISA. The mRNA and protein expressions were detected by qRT-PCR or Western blot, respectively. RESULTS: Naringenin (0.1, 1, 10 mumol/L) inhibited cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in a concentration-dependent manner (P < 0.05), up-regulated the expressions of PPARalpha, PPARbeta, PPARgamma and CYP2J3 (P < 0.05), and increased the level of 14,15-EET (P < 0.05). PPOH, a CYP2J3 inhibitor, blocked the naringenin-mediated improvement of myocardial hypertrophy (P < 0.01), and abolished the up-regulation of PPARs expressions (P < 0.01). Meanwhile, MK886, a PPARalpha antagonist, GSK0660, a PPARbeta antagonist, and GW9662, a PPARgamma antagonist, reversed the protection of naringenin on cardiomyocytes (P < 0.05), and abrogated the up-regulation of CYP2J3-EET produced by naringenin (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Activation of EETs and PPARs function together may be contributed to the anti-hypertrophic effect of naringenin in H9c2 cells under high glucose condition.
30551401	Glucose	Diabetic Cardiomyopathies	0	0	0	0		EETs/PPARs activation together mediates the preventive effect of naringenin in high glucose-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.	BACKGROUND: Cardiac hypertrophy is a key pathological process in the context of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Naringenin exhibits multiple pharmacological activities, but the effect of naringenin on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy under diabetic conditions is still far from clear. METHODS: Cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was induced by high glucose (HG, glucose at 25.5 mmol/L) in H9c2 cells, which was determined by cell surface area, protein content and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) mRNA expression. The effect of naringenin on cardiomyocyte hypertrophy was observed and its mechanisms were investigated by administration with various inhibitors on epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). The level of 14,15-EET was measured by ELISA. The mRNA and protein expressions were detected by qRT-PCR or Western blot, respectively. RESULTS: Naringenin (0.1, 1, 10 mumol/L) inhibited cardiomyocyte hypertrophy in a concentration-dependent manner (P < 0.05), up-regulated the expressions of PPARalpha, PPARbeta, PPARgamma and CYP2J3 (P < 0.05), and increased the level of 14,15-EET (P < 0.05). PPOH, a CYP2J3 inhibitor, blocked the naringenin-mediated improvement of myocardial hypertrophy (P < 0.01), and abolished the up-regulation of PPARs expressions (P < 0.01). Meanwhile, MK886, a PPARalpha antagonist, GSK0660, a PPARbeta antagonist, and GW9662, a PPARgamma antagonist, reversed the protection of naringenin on cardiomyocytes (P < 0.05), and abrogated the up-regulation of CYP2J3-EET produced by naringenin (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Activation of EETs and PPARs function together may be contributed to the anti-hypertrophic effect of naringenin in H9c2 cells under high glucose condition.
30464409	Methadone	Inflammation	0	1	0	0		Histopathological study of liver tissue due to methadone consumption and its effect on liver enzymes and inflammatory indices in rat.	BACKGROUND: Methadone (MET)-based treatment is currently one of the best known approaches in the treatment of opioid dependence. It is claimed that MET use exerts adverse effects on the performance of some organs, especially liver. Thus, the present study aims to investigate MET effects on the hepatic tissue as well as its effect on the hepatic enzyme levels and inflammatory markers in rats. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-eight mature male Wistar rats underwent an 8-week treatment in four equal groups including the control group (an ordinary daily dietary regime) as well as the experimental groups 1, 2, and 3 (an ordinary daily dietary regime and gavage-fed on MET syrup for 5, 20, and 40 mg/kg body weight per day). Blood samples were collected from all rats in the beginning and end of the study to measure their hepatic enzyme levels and inflammatory markers. In the end, their livers were subjected to histological examinations. RESULTS: The mean serum levels of hepatic enzymes (alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase) increased considerably across all the three groups that had received various dosages of MET (5, 20, and 40 mg/kg) in the end of the study as compared to the beginning of the study (P<0.001). It was also found that the inflammatory indicators (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and C-reactive protein) rose significantly in the groups that had received various dosages of MET in contrast to the control group (P<0.01, P<0.001, and P<0.001, respectively). The histopathological images of the liver cross-sections revealed dosage-dependent tissue changes in the groups that had received various dosages of MET. CONCLUSION: The present study tried to prove the adverse effects of MET in the development of liver damage. Since MET-based treatment is frequently prescribed by physicians for curing the addiction to narcotics, better strategies are required for its correct usage.
30305705	Citalopram	Dissociative Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Dissociable effects of acute SSRI (escitalopram) on executive, learning and emotional functions in healthy humans.	Serotonin is implicated in multiple executive functions including goal-directed learning, cognitive flexibility, response inhibition and emotional regulation. These functions are impaired in several psychiatric disorders, such as depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder. We tested the cognitive effects of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor escitalopram, using an acute and clinically relevant dose (20 mg), in 66 healthy male and female volunteers in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Participants performed a cognitive test battery including a probabilistic and reversal learning task, the CANTAB intra-dimensional/extra-dimensional shift test of cognitive flexibility, a response inhibition task with interleaved stop-signal and No-Go trials and tasks measuring emotional processing. We showed that acute escitalopram administration impaired learning and cognitive flexibility, but improved the ability to inhibit responses in stop-signal trials while leaving unaffected acute emotional processing. Our findings suggest a dissociation of effects of acute escitalopram on cognitive functions, possibly mediated by differential modulation of brain serotonin levels in distinct functional neural circuits.
30209057	Valsartan	Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Use of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) contaminated valsartan products and risk of cancer: Danish nationwide cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To perform an expedited assessment of cancer risk associated with exposure to N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) through contaminated valsartan products. DESIGN: Nationwide cohort study. SETTING: Danish health registries on individual level prescription drug use, cancer occurrence, and hospital diagnoses. PARTICIPANTS: 5150 Danish patients with no history of cancer, aged 40 years or older, and using valsartan at 1 January 2012 or initiating use between 1 January 2012 and 30 June 2017. Participants were followed from one year after cohort entry (lag time period) until experiencing a cancer outcome, death, migration, or end of study period (30 June 2018). Each participant's exposure to NDMA (ever exposure and predefined categories of cumulative valsartan exposure) was mapped out as a time varying variable while also applying a one year lag. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Association between NDMA exposure and a primary composite endpoint comprising all cancers except non-melanoma skin cancer, estimated using Cox regression. In supplementary analyses, the risk of individual cancers was determined. RESULTS: The final cohort comprised 5150 people followed for a median of 4.6 years. In total, 3625 cohort participants contributed 7344 person years classified as unexposed to NDMA, and 3450 participants contributed 11 920 person years classified as ever exposed to NDMA. With 104 cancer outcomes among NDMA unexposed participants and 198 among exposed participants, the adjusted hazard ratio for overall cancer was 1.09 (95% confidence interval 0.85 to 1.41), with no evidence of a dose-response relation (P=0.70). For single cancer outcomes, increases in risk were observed for colorectal cancer (hazard ratio 1.46, 95% confidence interval 0.79 to 2.73) and for uterine cancer (1.81, 0.55 to 5.90), although with wide confidence intervals that included the null. CONCLUSIONS: The results do not imply a markedly increased short term overall risk of cancer in users of valsartan contaminated with NDMA. However, uncertainty persists about single cancer outcomes, and studies with longer follow-up are needed to assess long term cancer risk.
30209057	Valsartan	Uterine Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Use of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) contaminated valsartan products and risk of cancer: Danish nationwide cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To perform an expedited assessment of cancer risk associated with exposure to N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) through contaminated valsartan products. DESIGN: Nationwide cohort study. SETTING: Danish health registries on individual level prescription drug use, cancer occurrence, and hospital diagnoses. PARTICIPANTS: 5150 Danish patients with no history of cancer, aged 40 years or older, and using valsartan at 1 January 2012 or initiating use between 1 January 2012 and 30 June 2017. Participants were followed from one year after cohort entry (lag time period) until experiencing a cancer outcome, death, migration, or end of study period (30 June 2018). Each participant's exposure to NDMA (ever exposure and predefined categories of cumulative valsartan exposure) was mapped out as a time varying variable while also applying a one year lag. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Association between NDMA exposure and a primary composite endpoint comprising all cancers except non-melanoma skin cancer, estimated using Cox regression. In supplementary analyses, the risk of individual cancers was determined. RESULTS: The final cohort comprised 5150 people followed for a median of 4.6 years. In total, 3625 cohort participants contributed 7344 person years classified as unexposed to NDMA, and 3450 participants contributed 11 920 person years classified as ever exposed to NDMA. With 104 cancer outcomes among NDMA unexposed participants and 198 among exposed participants, the adjusted hazard ratio for overall cancer was 1.09 (95% confidence interval 0.85 to 1.41), with no evidence of a dose-response relation (P=0.70). For single cancer outcomes, increases in risk were observed for colorectal cancer (hazard ratio 1.46, 95% confidence interval 0.79 to 2.73) and for uterine cancer (1.81, 0.55 to 5.90), although with wide confidence intervals that included the null. CONCLUSIONS: The results do not imply a markedly increased short term overall risk of cancer in users of valsartan contaminated with NDMA. However, uncertainty persists about single cancer outcomes, and studies with longer follow-up are needed to assess long term cancer risk.
30882108	Nitrous Oxide	Ataxia	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Last Laugh - Reversible myeloneuropathy induced by chronic nitrous oxide use.	A previously fit and well 19 year old male presents with a progressive ataxic - sensory neuropathy worsening over 2 - 3 weeks. History and investigations revealed extensive recreational use of nitrous oxide resulting in functional B12 deficiency and consequent subacute combined degeneration of the cord. Abstinence and B12 supplementation resulted in a rapid and full neurological recovery. This case report highlights the importance of considering nitrous oxide abuse in the differential diagnosis of atypical neurological symptoms and signs, and emphasizes the possibility of good clinical outcomes with treatment.
29080387	Tretinoin	Hearing Loss	1	0	0	0		Hearing impairment accompanied with low-tone tinnitus during all trans retinoic acid containing chemotherapy.	
30566235	Nortriptyline	Nausea	0	0	0	1		Pharmacological interventions for the treatment of depression in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.	BACKGROUND: Studies report that up to 80% of individuals with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) may struggle with symptoms of depression. However, this major comorbidity in COPD is rarely managed effectively. A number of recent studies indicate that left untreated, COPD-related depression is associated with worse quality of life, worse compliance with COPD treatment plan, increased exacerbations, hospital admissions, and healthcare costs when compared to individuals with COPD without depression. Regrettably, COPD practice guidelines do not provide conclusive treatment recommendations for the use of antidepressants in patients with COPD, and base their guidelines on findings from trials in the general population. This may be problematic, as there is an elevated risk of respiratory issues associated with antidepressant treatment and COPD. Evaluating effectiveness and safety of pharmacological interventions specifically for patients with COPD and depression was therefore paramount. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of pharmacological interventions for the treatment of depression in patients with COPD. SEARCH METHODS: The last search was performed on 26 November 2018. We initially searched the following databases via the Specialised Trials Registers of the Cochrane Airways and Common Mental Disorders Groups (to June 2016): MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, AMED, and the Cochrane Library trials register (CENTRAL). Searches from June 2016 to November 2018 were performed directly on Ovid MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and the Cochrane Library (Issue 11, 2018). We searched ClinicalTrials.gov, the ISRCTN registry, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform to 26 November 2018. We searched the grey literature databases to identify studies not indexed in major databases and the reference lists of studies initially identified for full-text screening. SELECTION CRITERIA: All published and unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the efficacy of pharmacological interventions with no intervention, placebo or co-intervention in adults with diagnosed COPD and depression were eligible for inclusion. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed articles identified by the search for eligibility. Our primary outcomes were change in depressive symptoms and adverse events. The secondary outcomes were: change in quality of life, change in dyspnoea, change in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)), change in exercise tolerance, change in hospital utilisation (length of stay and readmission rates), and cost-effectiveness. For continuous outcomes, we calculated the pooled mean difference (MD) or standardised mean difference (SMD) with 95% confidence interval (CI) as appropriate. For dichotomous outcomes, we calculated the pooled odds ratio (OR) and corresponding 95% CI using a random-effects model. We assessed the quality of evidence using the GRADE framework. MAIN RESULTS: Of the 1125 records screened for eligibility, four RCTs (N = 201 participants), and one on-going study, met the inclusion criteria. Two classes of antidepressants were investigated in two separate comparisons with placebo: a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).TCA versus placeboOnly one RCT (N = 30 participants) provided results for this comparison.Primary outcomesThe TCA (nortriptyline) reduced depressive symptoms post-treatment compared to placebo (MD -10.20, 95% CI -16.75 to -3.65; P = 0.007; very low-quality evidence), as measured by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D). Three participants withdrew from the trial due to adverse events related to the tested antidepressant (dry mouth, sedation, orthostatic hypotension).Secondary outcomesThe overall results post-treatment indicated that nortriptyline was not effective in improving the quality of life of individuals with COPD, as measured by the Sickness Impact Profile (MD -2.80, 95% CI -11.02 to 5.42; P = 0.50; very low-quality evidence).The results for the change in dyspnoea for the domains examined (e.g. dyspnoea scores for 'most day-to-day activities') post-treatment showed no improvement in the intervention group (MD 9.80, 95% CI -6.20 to 25.80; P = 0.23; very low-quality evidence).No data were reported for change in FEV(1), change in exercise tolerance, change in hospital utilisation, or cost-effectiveness. The TCA study provided short-term results, with the last follow-up data collection at 12 weeks.The quality of the evidence for all the outcomes evaluated was very low due to a small sample size, imprecision, attrition, and selection and reporting bias.SSRIs versus placeboThree RCTs (N = 171 participants) provided results for this comparison.Primary outcomesThe pooled results for two studies showed no difference for the change in depressive symptoms post-intervention (SMD 0.75, 95% CI -1.14 to 2.64; 148 participants; 2 studies; P = 0.44; very low-quality evidence). High heterogeneity was observed (I(2) = 95%), limiting the reliability of these findings.While it was not possible to meta-analyse the total adverse events rates across the studies, it was possible to combine the results for two medication-specific adverse effects: nausea and dizziness. There were no significant post-treatment group differences for nausea (OR 2.32, 95% CI 0.66 to 8.12; 171 participants; 3 studies; P = 0.19; very low-quality evidence) or dizziness (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.09 to 4.06; 143 participants; 2 studies; P = 0.61; very low-quality evidence).Secondary outcomesThe pooled analysis of two trials reporting data for the change in quality of life did not show improvement post-treatment in the intervention group compared to placebo (SMD 1.17, 95% CI -0.80 to 3.15; 148 participants; 2 studies; P = 0.25; very low-quality evidence).There was no difference between groups in change in FEV(1) post-treatment (MD 0.01, 95% CI -0.03 to 0.05; 148 participants; 2 studies; P = 0.60; low-quality evidence). However, two trials reported improvement in exercise tolerance in the SSRI group versus the placebo group (MD 13.88, 95% CI 11.73 to 16.03; 148 participants; 2 studies; P < 0.001; very low-quality evidence).The trials included in this comparison did not report data related to the change in dyspnoea, hospital utilisation rates, or cost-effectiveness. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to make definitive statements about the efficacy or safety of antidepressants for treating COPD-related depression. New RCTs are needed; with better methodological quality and more accurate reporting of the methods used. Moreover, longer-term follow-up data collection is needed, including outcomes such as adverse events, hospital utilisation and cost-effectiveness.
29438643	Dronabinol	Brain Diseases	0	0	0	0		Encephalopathy after chocolate consumption.	
30773659	Timolol	Cicatrix	1	0	0	0		An in vitro study of scarring formation mediated by human Tenon fibroblasts: Effect of Y-27632, a Rho kinase inhibitor.	Scar formation is the most common cause for failure of glaucoma filtration surgery because of increased fibroblast proliferation and activation. We have now examined the effect of Y-27632, a Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, on postsurgical scarring formation in human Tenon fibroblasts (HTFs). Collagen gel contraction assay was used to compare contractility activity of Y-27632 with several antiglaucoma drugs. Immunofluorescence and western blotting were used to examine expression of scar formation-related factors. We found that Y-27632 inhibited collagen gel contraction, as well as alpha-smooth muscle actin and vimentin expression; these were promoted by treatment with latanoprost, timolol, or transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta. To investigate the effect of Y-27632 in postsurgical scarring, we mimicked TGF-beta secretion by stimulating HTFs with TGF-beta prior to Y-27632 treatment. HTFs cultured in the presence of TGF-beta significantly increased gel contraction. In contrast, when HTFs were treated with 10muM Y-27632, contraction was significantly inhibited. Furthermore, Y-27632 reduced TGF-beta-induced phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase signalling. These results suggest that ROCK inhibitors may inhibit fibrosis by inhibiting transdifferentiation of Tenon fibroblasts into myofibroblasts and by inhibiting TGF-beta signalling after surgery through mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway suppression. These results implicate that ROCK inhibitors may improve outcomes after filtering surgery with a potential antiscarring effect, while latanoprost and timolol may induce fibrosis. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: Scar formation is the primary cause of failure after glaucoma filtration surgery. A ROCK inhibitor, Y-27632, has been introduced as a novel potential antiglaucoma treatment to reduce intraocular pressure. The aim of our study was to elucidate the effect of Y-27632 on scarring formation after glaucoma filtration surgery, in direct comparison with other antiglaucoma drugs. Our findings thus suggested that Y-27632 may inhibit fibrosis and improve outcome after glaucoma filtration surgery through inhibition of transdifferentiation of Tenon fibroblasts into myofibroblasts, and the TGF-beta and MAPK signalling after surgery, while latanoprost and timolol may induce fibrosis.
29932008	Sevoflurane	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	1	1	0	1	0.0	Genetic damage of operating and recovery room personnel occupationally exposed to waste anaesthetic gases.	Occupational exposure to the waste anaesthetic gases (WAGs) is a crucial problem for healthcare personnel. Cancer is among the potential long-term adverse effects of WAGs. The present occupational molecular epidemiology study was conducted in healthcare personnel (anaesthetists, nurses and technicians; n = 46), working in operating rooms (ORs; n = 34) and recovery units (RUs; n = 12) of the same hospital, to assess the genotoxicity risk of WAGs exposure. Twenty-one healthy available hospital staff allocated to other wards, without the history of working in ORs and RUs were the control group. A micronucleus test was carried out for peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) and buccal epithelial cells (BECs). Exposure to the anaesthetics was assessed with sevoflurane concentrations and inorganic fluoride levels in post-shift urine samples of the healthcare staff. As an exposure marker, sevoflurane concentrations in ORs and RUs were measured using passive samplers. The micronuclei frequencies were increased in both PBLs (approximately two times) and BECs (approximately three times) of the healthcare personnel. Urinary sevoflurane concentrations exceeded the biological equivalent level in 23 personnel. Air sevoflurane levels in the breathing zone in three ORs and one RU did not exceed the established occupational exposure limits. Both in surrogate tissue (PBLs) and in target tissue (BECs) of the personnel of RUs and ORs of the same hospital, the genotoxicity risk was evident and similar. Originality of this study, in addition to the WAGs exposure confirmation of the healthcare personnel, was the involvement of the RU personnel for the genotoxicity assessment, which was the first time in the scientific literature.
29730743	Fondaparinux	Anemia	0	1	0	0		The clinical impact of edoxaban for the patients with postoperative anemia after total hip arthroplasty.	BACKGROUND: Postoperative anemia is a common complication after total hip arthroplasty (THA). However, the effect of edoxaban on postoperative anemia after THA remains unclear. Here, we retrospectively evaluated the clinical assessment of postoperative anemia and the associated changes of coagulation parameters in patients undergoing thromboprophylaxis with edoxaban compared with fondaparinux as a conventional anticoagulant thromboprophylactic agent after THA. METHODS: One hundred and forty-nine patients who underwent THA from July 2010 to June 2012 were divided into two groups, according to whether they were operated on before or after the approval of edoxaban: the fondaparinux group (Group F: 86 patients) and the edoxaban group (Group E: 63 patients). The frequency of postoperative anemia and blood coagulation values were investigated. RESULTS: Postoperative anemia developed more frequently in Group E than in Group F after surgery. However, the degree of postoperative anemia showed no significant difference between the groups. Meanwhile, prothrombin time (PT), prothrombin time-international normalized ratio (PT-INR), and activated partial thromboplastin time were markedly higher in patients with edoxaban-associated postoperative anemia, which showed an increased potential to predict the occurrence of postoperative anemia. Additionally, both PT and PT-INR in Group E were also correlated with the volume of estimated blood loss. CONCLUSION: The frequency of postoperative anemia was increased in patients treated with edoxaban, compared to fondaparinux, after THA. Edoxaban thromboprophylaxis might, therefore, require more careful monitoring to prevent postoperative anemia. Additionally, particular prolongation of PT and PT-INR induced by edoxaban treatment might predict postoperative anemia.
30567238	Rituximab	Intestinal Perforation	1	0	0	0		Treatment dilemma for survivors of rituximab-induced bowel perforation in the setting of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder.	Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a recognised complication of solid and haematopoietic stem cell transplant. It consists of a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms that arises secondary to post-transplant immunosuppression. Although there is no definite standard of care for the optimal treatment for PTLD, rituximab, a monoclonal antibody, with and/or without chemotherapy (usually CHOP=cytoxan, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) has become a routine part of the treatment of any CD20 (+) PTLD, with response rates similar to chemotherapy with decreased toxicity. A rare and often lethal, complication of rituximab therapy for PTLD is bowel perforation secondary to tumour lysis of lymphoma involving the intestine. A small number of cases of bowel perforation have been reported, with very few documented survivors. The risk for recurrent perforation in the setting of ongoing rituximab treatment is unknown. There is sparse data supporting how to best treat the survivors.
30567238	Rituximab	Postoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Treatment dilemma for survivors of rituximab-induced bowel perforation in the setting of post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder.	Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) is a recognised complication of solid and haematopoietic stem cell transplant. It consists of a heterogeneous group of lymphoid neoplasms that arises secondary to post-transplant immunosuppression. Although there is no definite standard of care for the optimal treatment for PTLD, rituximab, a monoclonal antibody, with and/or without chemotherapy (usually CHOP=cytoxan, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) has become a routine part of the treatment of any CD20 (+) PTLD, with response rates similar to chemotherapy with decreased toxicity. A rare and often lethal, complication of rituximab therapy for PTLD is bowel perforation secondary to tumour lysis of lymphoma involving the intestine. A small number of cases of bowel perforation have been reported, with very few documented survivors. The risk for recurrent perforation in the setting of ongoing rituximab treatment is unknown. There is sparse data supporting how to best treat the survivors.
30254031	Sildenafil Citrate	Fetal Growth Retardation	1	0	0	0		Comprehensive literature search for animal studies may have saved STRIDER trial.	
30381161	Gabapentin	Myoclonus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Gabapentin or pregabalin induced myoclonus: A case series and literature review.	"Gabapentin (GBP) and pregabalin (PGB) are FDA approved for adjunctive treatment of partial seizures and for treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia. Both drugs are primarily eliminated by renal excretion. However, PGB or GBP induced myoclonus has only been reported infrequently in case reports/series. It is not discussed with patients and its sudden occurrence can lead to anxiety because of ""seizure-like"" nature. In addition, first-contact physicians might treat it as seizures, leading to unnecessary tests and aggressive management. Medical records of patients who had myoclonus because of PGB or GBP seen by Neurology service between Jan & May 2017 in inpatient or outpatient setting at our tertiary care setting were reviewed. We identified six patients who were on either GBP or PGB or both who developed likely subcortical myoclonus in the setting of renal insufficiency and one patient who developed myoclonus independent of renal dysfunction. Our results indicate that myoclonus is commonly seen in patients in various clinical settings with or without renal insufficiency, and is independent of the severity of the renal failure. However, this is a reversible side effect of medication and it resolves either by discontinuing the medication, removing the medication with hemodialysis or by improvement of renal dysfunction. With a high index of suspicion, aggressive testing and treatment for other possible conditions like seizures (in non-epilepsy patients) or CNS infections can be avoided. In patients with renal failure and with decreased physiological renal clearance such as the elderly, GBP or PGB dose initiation and changes should be conservative."
30301373	Polysorbates	Nausea	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypersensitivity and infusion-site adverse events with intravenous fosaprepitant after anthracycline-containing chemotherapy: a retrospective study.	AIM: Fosaprepitant, an intravenous neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, contains polysorbate 80, which is associated with infusion-site adverse events (ISAEs) and hypersensitivity systemic reactions (HSRs). This study investigated ISAEs/HSRs following fosaprepitant with anthracycline-containing chemotherapy. PATIENTS & METHODS: This retrospective chart review noted ISAEs/HSRs following the anthracycline doxorubicin+cyclophosphamide and a three-drug fosaprepitant regimen, via peripheral line. RESULTS: 35/127 patients (28%) developed ISAEs/HSRs with chemotherapy and antiemetic therapy: 32 developed 137 individual ISAEs, primarily erythema, pain and catheter-site swelling; 16 developed 50 individual HSRs, primarily edema/swelling, erythema or dermatitis (no anaphylaxis). CONCLUSION: Fosaprepitant is associated with a significant ISAE/HSR rate following anthracycline-containing chemotherapy via peripheral line. Polysorbate 80-free intravenous neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist may provide a safer chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting prophylaxis option.
29718709	Caffeine	Hypercholesterolemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Intrauterine programming mechanism for hypercholesterolemia in prenatal caffeine-exposed female adult rat offspring.	Clinical and animal studies have indicated that hypercholesterolemia and its associated diseases have intrauterine developmental origins. Our previous studies showed that prenatal caffeine exposure (PCE) led to fetal overexposure to maternal glucocorticoids (GCs) and increased serum total cholesterol levels in adult rat offspring. This study further confirms the intrauterine programming of PCE-induced hypercholesterolemia in female adult rat offspring. Pregnant Wistar rats were intragastrically administered caffeine (30, 60, and 120 mg/kg/d) from gestational day (GD)9 to 20. Female rat offspring were euthanized at GD20 and postnatal wk 12; several adult rat offspring were additionally subjected to ice-water swimming stimulation to induce chronic stress prior to death. The effects of GCs on cholesterol metabolism and epigenetic regulation were verified using the L02 cell line. The results showed that PCE induced hypercholesterolemia in adult offspring, which manifested as significantly higher levels of serum total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) as well as higher ratios of LDL-C/HDL cholesterol. We further found that the cholesterol levels were increased in fetal livers but were decreased in fetal blood, accompanied by increased maternal blood cholesterol levels and reduced placental cholesterol transport. Furthermore, analysis of PCE offspring in the uterus and in a postnatal basal/chronic stress state and the results of in vitro experiments showed that hepatic cholesterol metabolism underwent GC-dependent changes and was associated with cholesterol synthase via abnormalities in 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR) histone acetylation. We concluded that, to compensate for intrauterine placentally derived decreases in fetal blood cholesterol levels, high intrauterine GC levels activated fetal hepatic CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha signaling and down-regulated Sirtuin1 expression, which mediated the high levels of histone acetylation ( via H3K9ac and H3K14ac) and expression of HMGCR. This GC-dependent cholesterol metabolism programming effect was sustained through adulthood, leading to the occurrence of hypercholesterolemia.-Xu, D., Luo, H. W., Hu, W., Hu, S. W., Yuan, C., Wang, G. H., Zhang, L., Yu, H., Magdalou, J., Chen, L. B., Wang, H. Intrauterine programming mechanism for hypercholesterolemia in prenatal caffeine-exposed female adult rat offspring.
29189629	Durapatite	Tendinopathy	0	0	0	0		Calcific Tendinitis of the Shoulder.	
30907975	Bevacizumab	Cataract	1	1	0	0	1.0	Bilateral Total Cataract After Intravitreal Bevacizumab Injection in Aggressive Posterior Retinopathy of Prematurity.	The authors report a rare occurrence of bilateral cataract in eyes with aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity after bilateral administration of intravitreal bevacizumab in a neonate, with no evidence of lens touch. Although the exact mechanism of cataractogenesis is unclear, the possibility of local drug toxicity needs to be investigated. [J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2019;56:e28-e30.].
30882666	Crizotinib	Bradycardia	1	0	0	0		ALK-rearranged lung adenocarcinoma patient with development of severe sinus bradycardia after treatment with crizotinib: A case report.	RATIONALE: The anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) rearrangements represent a subtype of nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and targeting ALK has radically changed the treatment of NSCLC. Crizotinib, as an ALK inhibitor, has been used in the treatment of ALK-rearranged NSCLC for several years and some adverse effects should be given attention. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 64-year-old woman with a no-smoking history visited hospital in November 2016 because of a persistent cough, expectoration, and progressive dysphagia for 2 months. DIAGNOSES AND INTERVENTIONS: She was diagnosed with primary lung adenocarcinoma, accompanied by pleural and bone metastases. After receiving chemotherapy for nearly 1 year, she showed progressive disease. DNA-sequencing identified an intergenic ALK rearrangement. Surprisingly, RNA-sequencing revealed the EML4-ALK fusion transcript. Subsequently, this patient switched to crizotinib therapy. OUTCOMES: The patient achieved partial response after 1-month treatment. However, this patient suffered a severe sinus bradycardia after 4 months of treatment. When reducing the dose of crizotinib, the side effect was alleviated and this patient showed stable disease until now. LESSONS: Given that the severe sinus bradycardia was an unusual adverse effect, physicians should be aware of these side effects when using crizotinib. Moreover, it should be noted that this patient harbored an intergenic ALK rearrangement identified by DNA-sequencing, but EML4-ALK fusion transcript verified by RNA-sequencing. However, the mechanism remains unknown and requires further research.
30837393	Nivolumab	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Nivolumab-induced hypothyroidism: A case report].	Nivolumab is an anti-programmed cell death (anti-PD-1) monoclonal antibody, which is a new drug for tumor immunotherapy. A 73-year-old female patient with colorectal cancer 3 years after surgery was treated in the Endocrinology Department of Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, who developed severe hypothyroidism resulting from treatment with nivolumab. After 4 months treatment of nivolumab, this patient presented with symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness, jaundice and palpebral edema, with decreased levels of FT3 and FT4 and elevated levels of TSH. Subsequently, nivolumab treatment was terminated. This patient's symptoms were relieved and thyroid function returned to normal after thyroxine replacement therapy. The clinical diagnosis was considered to be nivolumab-induced autoimmune thyroid damage, which was an immune-related adverse reaction in the treatment.
30448514	Sevoflurane	Pregnancy Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fundamentals of fetal toxicity relevant to sevoflurane exposures during pregnancy.	Over the last three decades, advances in medical and surgical techniques have proven life saving and life-improving for young children. Consequently, early and repeated exposure to general anesthetics in childhood has increased. However, accumulating evidence suggests that general anesthetics may be neurotoxic in children. Of particular concern is the neurotoxicity fetuses may suffer from maternal exposure to sevoflurane during surgeries and fetal intervention procedures performed during the second trimester, as this can cause neurodevelopmental impairment in offspring. In this review we demonstrate that the pathology associated with fetal toxicity resulting from exposure to sevoflurane during pregnancy involves oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, neuroapoptosis, and alteration of synaptic properties. The mechanisms remain to be elucidated, but may include increased tau protein phosphorylation and abnormal methylation. These findings highlight the need for a global and comprehensive understanding of the potential neurotoxicity of anesthetic exposure in fetuses and its long-term effects.
30448514	Sevoflurane	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fundamentals of fetal toxicity relevant to sevoflurane exposures during pregnancy.	Over the last three decades, advances in medical and surgical techniques have proven life saving and life-improving for young children. Consequently, early and repeated exposure to general anesthetics in childhood has increased. However, accumulating evidence suggests that general anesthetics may be neurotoxic in children. Of particular concern is the neurotoxicity fetuses may suffer from maternal exposure to sevoflurane during surgeries and fetal intervention procedures performed during the second trimester, as this can cause neurodevelopmental impairment in offspring. In this review we demonstrate that the pathology associated with fetal toxicity resulting from exposure to sevoflurane during pregnancy involves oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, neuroapoptosis, and alteration of synaptic properties. The mechanisms remain to be elucidated, but may include increased tau protein phosphorylation and abnormal methylation. These findings highlight the need for a global and comprehensive understanding of the potential neurotoxicity of anesthetic exposure in fetuses and its long-term effects.
30103919	Arachidonic Acid	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Differentiating the biological effects of linoleic acid from arachidonic acid in health and disease.	Dietary fatty acids are associated with the development of many chronic diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, and several cancers. This review explores the literature surrounding the combined and individual roles of n-6 PUFAs linoleic acid (LA) and arachidonic acid (AA) as they relate to immune and inflammatory response, cardiovascular health, liver health, and cancer. The evidence suggests that a pro-inflammatory view of LA and AA may be over simplified. Overall, this review highlights gaps in our understanding of the biological roles of LA, AA and their complex relationship with n-3 PUFA and the need for future studies that examine the roles of individual fatty acids, rather than groups.
30103919	Linoleic Acid	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Differentiating the biological effects of linoleic acid from arachidonic acid in health and disease.	Dietary fatty acids are associated with the development of many chronic diseases, such as obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, and several cancers. This review explores the literature surrounding the combined and individual roles of n-6 PUFAs linoleic acid (LA) and arachidonic acid (AA) as they relate to immune and inflammatory response, cardiovascular health, liver health, and cancer. The evidence suggests that a pro-inflammatory view of LA and AA may be over simplified. Overall, this review highlights gaps in our understanding of the biological roles of LA, AA and their complex relationship with n-3 PUFA and the need for future studies that examine the roles of individual fatty acids, rather than groups.
30072374	Nivolumab	Anemia, Hemolytic, Autoimmune	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nivolumab-induced cold agglutinin syndrome successfully treated with rituximab.	Cold agglutinin syndrome is one of the rare immune-related adverse events of nivolumab. Rituximab should be considered for treatment of nivolumab-induced cold agglutinin syndrome.
30072374	Nivolumab	Neoplasms, Second Primary	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nivolumab-induced cold agglutinin syndrome successfully treated with rituximab.	Cold agglutinin syndrome is one of the rare immune-related adverse events of nivolumab. Rituximab should be considered for treatment of nivolumab-induced cold agglutinin syndrome.
29986235	Domperidone	Liver Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Domperidone use and risk of primary liver cancer in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink.	BACKGROUND: Pronounced sex-disparity in liver cancer suggests a role for hormones, one of which could be prolactin. Stimulation of prolactin production in mice via domperidone has been reported to decrease hepatocarcinogenesis, thus may have chemopreventive potential. To study the effect of domperidone in humans, a large medical records study was conducted. METHODS: Based in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink, 1921 liver cancer cases and 7681 controls were identified. Conditional logistic regression was employed to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). Domperidone use was analyzed overall, and by number of prescriptions and cumulative dose. RESULTS: Comparing ever- versus never-use, there was no association between domperidone and liver cancer among men (OR = 1.06, 95% CI: 0.76-1.48) or women (OR = 1.21, 95% CI: 0.82-1.76). Among men, there was no association with dose or number of prescriptions, while among women who received the highest doses (OR(2700 mg vs. 0 mg) = 2.52, 95% CI: 1.18-5.41, p-trend = 0.02) and greatest number of prescriptions (OR(>/=11 Rx vs. 0 Rx) = 3.17, 95% CI: 1.07-9.40, p-trend = 0.02) there was a significantly increased risk, although there was no evidence of heterogeneity in the results by gender. CONCLUSION: Domperidone use was not associated with decreased liver cancer risk among all study participants. Among women, an increased risk at highest levels of exposure warrants further study.
29746915	Aminobutyrates	Cognition Disorders	1	0	0	0		Cognition- and Dementia-Related Adverse Effects With Sacubitril-Valsartan: Analysis of the FDA Adverse Event Report System Database.	BACKGROUND: Because neprilysin is involved in the degradation of amyloid-beta, there is concern that the angiotensin-neprilysin inhibitor sacubitril-valsartan could increase the risk for dementia. METHODS: We analyzed adverse event cases submitted to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Report System from July 2015 to March 2017. Cognition- and dementia-related adverse event cases were defined with the use of broad and narrow structured medical queries. RESULTS: During the period evaluated, 9,004 adverse event reports (out of a total of 2,249,479) involved the use of sacubitril-valsartan. Based on the broad definition, sacubitril-valsartan was associated with cognition- and dementia-related adverse events in 459 reports (5.1%), but this was lower than the proportion of these reports among other medications (6.6%, reporting odds ratio [ROR] 0.72, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.65-0.79). Restricting the comparison to cases with age >60 years and with the use of a comparator group with heart failure resulted in no association between sacubitril-valsartan and dementia-related adverse events, with the use of both the broad and the narrow definitions (ROR 0.87, 95% CI 0.76-1.02, and ROR 1.06, 95% CI 0.4-3.16, respectively). CONCLUSION: Sacubitril-valsartan is not associated with a disproportionately high rate of short-term dementia-related adverse effect reports. Long-term studies assessing cognitive outcomes are required to better establish the medication's cognition effects.
29746915	Aminobutyrates	Dementia	1	0	0	0		Cognition- and Dementia-Related Adverse Effects With Sacubitril-Valsartan: Analysis of the FDA Adverse Event Report System Database.	BACKGROUND: Because neprilysin is involved in the degradation of amyloid-beta, there is concern that the angiotensin-neprilysin inhibitor sacubitril-valsartan could increase the risk for dementia. METHODS: We analyzed adverse event cases submitted to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Report System from July 2015 to March 2017. Cognition- and dementia-related adverse event cases were defined with the use of broad and narrow structured medical queries. RESULTS: During the period evaluated, 9,004 adverse event reports (out of a total of 2,249,479) involved the use of sacubitril-valsartan. Based on the broad definition, sacubitril-valsartan was associated with cognition- and dementia-related adverse events in 459 reports (5.1%), but this was lower than the proportion of these reports among other medications (6.6%, reporting odds ratio [ROR] 0.72, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.65-0.79). Restricting the comparison to cases with age >60 years and with the use of a comparator group with heart failure resulted in no association between sacubitril-valsartan and dementia-related adverse events, with the use of both the broad and the narrow definitions (ROR 0.87, 95% CI 0.76-1.02, and ROR 1.06, 95% CI 0.4-3.16, respectively). CONCLUSION: Sacubitril-valsartan is not associated with a disproportionately high rate of short-term dementia-related adverse effect reports. Long-term studies assessing cognitive outcomes are required to better establish the medication's cognition effects.
29576299	Crizotinib	Cysts	1	0	0	0		Development of Complex Hepatic Cysts Is a Potential Side Effect of Crizotinib.	
28651881	Megestrol Acetate	Hypopituitarism	0	0	0	0		Megestrol acetate. Is its use so harmless as it might seem?	
30326409	Gabapentin	Foot Dermatoses	1	1	1	1	1.0	Gabapentin-induced eczematous drug eruption of the bilateral foot.	Drug eruptions represent a wide spectrum of cutaneous reactions to various pharmaceutical agents. Given their complexity and varied patterns of presentation, these phenomena are the subject of study of many fields of medicine. Gabapentin is a widely prescribed medication, with numerous drug reactions previously reported. We present a unique case of a gabapentin-induced drug eruption primarily affecting the feet.
30589625	Pioglitazone	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Implications of Removing Rosiglitazone's Black Box Warning and Restricted Access Program on the Uptake of Thiazolidinediones and Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors Among Patients with Type 2 Diabetes.	BACKGROUND: Medications are increasingly being approved with limited, short-term evidence regarding safety. Regulatory safety concerns may emerge for these drugs but later may be reversed if additional evidence suggests no warning is indicated. OBJECTIVE: To describe trends over time in the initiation of rosiglitazone and pioglitazone-both in the thiazolidinedione (TZD) class-and medications from the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor class before and after the FDA removed a black box warning and restricted access program for rosiglitazone regarding an increased risk of myocardial infarction. METHODS: This retrospective study evaluated initiation of TZDs and DPP-4 inhibitors using 2001-2015 administrative claims data from a U.S. commercially insured population. Patients were aged 18-64 years and were new users of either a TZD or DPP-4 inhibitor. Among all patients who were new users of either a TZD or a DPP-4 inhibitor during each quarter-year (Q), the percentage of patients who initiated rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, and DPP-4 inhibitors were calculated. RESULTS: There were 630,977 patients eligible for the study. During 2007, rosiglitazone initiators decreased from 39.1% to 8.0% in 2007 Q4 when the black box warning was implemented. During 2010, rosiglitazone initiators decreased from 7.6% to 1.0%, as safety evidence accumulated and the restricted access program requirement was announced. Rosiglitazone initiation remained below 1.0%, even after regulatory restrictions were removed in November 2013. Pioglitazone initiation decreased from 46.4% in 2010 Q1 to 14.8% in 2011 Q4 and remained relatively constant between 14.5% and 17.8% after regulatory restrictions for rosiglitazone were removed. After DPP-4 inhibitors first became available in 2006 Q3, initiation of this medication class increased rapidly, stayed relatively constant between 42.8% and 45.5% in 2009, and then quickly rose and remained above 80% from 2012 through 2015. CONCLUSIONS: This case study provides some evidence that adding and later reversing drug safety warnings-particularly those with restricted access requirements-may affect the uptake of the targeted product into the population when multiple clinically relevant treatment alternatives are available (such as type 2 diabetes). Once a treatment falls out of favor, removal of safety warnings and/or restricted access programs may not lead to increased use. DISCLOSURES: This project was not directly supported by any funding. Hickson was supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute through a National Research Service Award (NRSA) training grant (4T32HL007055-41) as a postdoctoral research fellow with the Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology Program at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-CH). Cole was supported by a NRSA Predoctoral Traineeship from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality sponsored by The Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, UNC-CH (grant no. T32-HS000032) and a predoctoral fellowship from the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education. Unrelated to this project, Cole was a part-time employee of Truven Health Analytics/IBM Watson Health. Dusetzina has nothing to disclose.
30589625	Rosiglitazone	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Implications of Removing Rosiglitazone's Black Box Warning and Restricted Access Program on the Uptake of Thiazolidinediones and Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4 Inhibitors Among Patients with Type 2 Diabetes.	BACKGROUND: Medications are increasingly being approved with limited, short-term evidence regarding safety. Regulatory safety concerns may emerge for these drugs but later may be reversed if additional evidence suggests no warning is indicated. OBJECTIVE: To describe trends over time in the initiation of rosiglitazone and pioglitazone-both in the thiazolidinedione (TZD) class-and medications from the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor class before and after the FDA removed a black box warning and restricted access program for rosiglitazone regarding an increased risk of myocardial infarction. METHODS: This retrospective study evaluated initiation of TZDs and DPP-4 inhibitors using 2001-2015 administrative claims data from a U.S. commercially insured population. Patients were aged 18-64 years and were new users of either a TZD or DPP-4 inhibitor. Among all patients who were new users of either a TZD or a DPP-4 inhibitor during each quarter-year (Q), the percentage of patients who initiated rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, and DPP-4 inhibitors were calculated. RESULTS: There were 630,977 patients eligible for the study. During 2007, rosiglitazone initiators decreased from 39.1% to 8.0% in 2007 Q4 when the black box warning was implemented. During 2010, rosiglitazone initiators decreased from 7.6% to 1.0%, as safety evidence accumulated and the restricted access program requirement was announced. Rosiglitazone initiation remained below 1.0%, even after regulatory restrictions were removed in November 2013. Pioglitazone initiation decreased from 46.4% in 2010 Q1 to 14.8% in 2011 Q4 and remained relatively constant between 14.5% and 17.8% after regulatory restrictions for rosiglitazone were removed. After DPP-4 inhibitors first became available in 2006 Q3, initiation of this medication class increased rapidly, stayed relatively constant between 42.8% and 45.5% in 2009, and then quickly rose and remained above 80% from 2012 through 2015. CONCLUSIONS: This case study provides some evidence that adding and later reversing drug safety warnings-particularly those with restricted access requirements-may affect the uptake of the targeted product into the population when multiple clinically relevant treatment alternatives are available (such as type 2 diabetes). Once a treatment falls out of favor, removal of safety warnings and/or restricted access programs may not lead to increased use. DISCLOSURES: This project was not directly supported by any funding. Hickson was supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute through a National Research Service Award (NRSA) training grant (4T32HL007055-41) as a postdoctoral research fellow with the Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology Program at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-CH). Cole was supported by a NRSA Predoctoral Traineeship from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality sponsored by The Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research, UNC-CH (grant no. T32-HS000032) and a predoctoral fellowship from the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education. Unrelated to this project, Cole was a part-time employee of Truven Health Analytics/IBM Watson Health. Dusetzina has nothing to disclose.
30578426	Sulfasalazine	Vitiligo	1	0	0	0		Relapsing Course of Sulfasalazine-Induced Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) Complicated by Alopecia Universalis and Vitiligo.	
30372722	Vemurafenib	Keratosis	1	0	0	0		Vemurafenib-induced plantar hyperkeratosis.	
29544131	Daunorubicin	Typhlitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Similar incidence of typhlitis in patients receiving various doses of daunorubicin or idarubicin as induction for acute myeloid leukemia.	BACKGROUND: The current standard of care for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an anthracycline plus cytarabine. Both anthracyclines and cytarabine have been associated with the development of typhlitis, a serious adverse event characterized by inflammation of the bowel wall in patients with profound neutropenia, diagnosed by abdominal CT imaging and clinical symptoms. Given the paucity of available data, the aim of our study was to determine the incidence of typhlitis among AML patients receiving induction chemotherapy with idarubicin 12 mg/m(2) (IDA), daunorubicin 60 mg/m(2) (DNA60), or daunorubicin 90 mg/m(2) (DNA90). METHODS: Adult patients with AML or MDS receiving either daunorubicin or idarubicin along with cytarabine as part of their induction regimen between January 1, 2009 and June 30, 2013 were included. A definition of typhlitis required CT confirmation of inflammation of the cecum only, defined as non-tumoral bowel wall thickening with or without pericolonic fat infiltration and fluid, according to CTCAE version 4.03 along with clinical symptoms. The primary endpoint was to determine the incidence of typhlitis among IDA, DNA60, and DNA90. Secondary endpoints included characterizing the variability of doses used in induction therapy and identifying any potential risk factors for the development of typhlitis. RESULTS: The overall incidence of typhlitis was 2.5%. When the definition was broadened to include the colitis, enteritis, or enterocolitis, the incidence increased. The inter-reliability ratings of the 2 radiologists' evaluations for each definition indicated substantial agreement (0.803 cecum, 0.834 ileocecal region only, and 0.752 enterocolitis). Neither the anthracycline chosen, nor the dose had a statistically significant impact on the incidence of typhlitis. In patients that developed typhlitis, all patients had clinical symptoms in addition to documented cecum inflammation on CT scan. All patients were managed conservatively with intravenous broad-spectrum antibiotics. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study to compare the incidence of typhlitis in adult patients receiving idarubicin or daunorubicin for the treatment of AML. The cumulative incidence of typhlitis was similar to the currently published literature, with the incidence being similar irrespective of the anthracycline chosen or dose. All patients were managed conservatively with broad-spectrum antibiotics. A more definitive definition of typhlitis may help clinicians identify affected patients sooner and choose appropriate targeted therapy.
29544131	Idarubicin	Typhlitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Similar incidence of typhlitis in patients receiving various doses of daunorubicin or idarubicin as induction for acute myeloid leukemia.	BACKGROUND: The current standard of care for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an anthracycline plus cytarabine. Both anthracyclines and cytarabine have been associated with the development of typhlitis, a serious adverse event characterized by inflammation of the bowel wall in patients with profound neutropenia, diagnosed by abdominal CT imaging and clinical symptoms. Given the paucity of available data, the aim of our study was to determine the incidence of typhlitis among AML patients receiving induction chemotherapy with idarubicin 12 mg/m(2) (IDA), daunorubicin 60 mg/m(2) (DNA60), or daunorubicin 90 mg/m(2) (DNA90). METHODS: Adult patients with AML or MDS receiving either daunorubicin or idarubicin along with cytarabine as part of their induction regimen between January 1, 2009 and June 30, 2013 were included. A definition of typhlitis required CT confirmation of inflammation of the cecum only, defined as non-tumoral bowel wall thickening with or without pericolonic fat infiltration and fluid, according to CTCAE version 4.03 along with clinical symptoms. The primary endpoint was to determine the incidence of typhlitis among IDA, DNA60, and DNA90. Secondary endpoints included characterizing the variability of doses used in induction therapy and identifying any potential risk factors for the development of typhlitis. RESULTS: The overall incidence of typhlitis was 2.5%. When the definition was broadened to include the colitis, enteritis, or enterocolitis, the incidence increased. The inter-reliability ratings of the 2 radiologists' evaluations for each definition indicated substantial agreement (0.803 cecum, 0.834 ileocecal region only, and 0.752 enterocolitis). Neither the anthracycline chosen, nor the dose had a statistically significant impact on the incidence of typhlitis. In patients that developed typhlitis, all patients had clinical symptoms in addition to documented cecum inflammation on CT scan. All patients were managed conservatively with intravenous broad-spectrum antibiotics. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first study to compare the incidence of typhlitis in adult patients receiving idarubicin or daunorubicin for the treatment of AML. The cumulative incidence of typhlitis was similar to the currently published literature, with the incidence being similar irrespective of the anthracycline chosen or dose. All patients were managed conservatively with broad-spectrum antibiotics. A more definitive definition of typhlitis may help clinicians identify affected patients sooner and choose appropriate targeted therapy.
29337963	Vinorelbine	Asthenia	0	0	0	0		Phase I open-label study of afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with solid tumours overexpressing EGFR and/or HER2.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study evaluated afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with advanced solid tumours overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and/or human EGFR 2 (HER2). METHODS: Maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were determined for afatinib (20, 40 or 50 mg, once daily) combined with standard intravenous vinorelbine (part A; 25 mg m(-2) per week) or oral vinorelbine (part B; 60 mg m(-2) per week, increased to 80 mg m(-2) per week at week 3). Secondary end points for expanded MTD cohorts included assessments of safety, pharmacokinetics, tumour response and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: The afatinib MTD was 40 mg with intravenous (MTD(A)) and oral (MTD(B)) vinorelbine. The most frequent cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicities were febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea, consistent with individual safety profiles of vinorelbine and afatinib. Common treatment-related adverse events included: diarrhoea (92.7%), asthenia (76.4%), nausea (63.6%), neutropenia (56.4%) and vomiting (54.5%). No notable pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Best overall tumour response was stable disease in part A (16 out of 28 patients), and partial response in part B (3 out of 27 patients). Median PFS was 14.6 and 15.9 weeks for patients treated at the MTD(A) and MTD(B), including dose-escalation and expansion cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Afatinib in combination with intravenous or oral vinorelbine demonstrated a manageable safety profile and antitumour activity at the MTD of 40 mg per day.
29337963	Vinorelbine	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Phase I open-label study of afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with solid tumours overexpressing EGFR and/or HER2.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study evaluated afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with advanced solid tumours overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and/or human EGFR 2 (HER2). METHODS: Maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were determined for afatinib (20, 40 or 50 mg, once daily) combined with standard intravenous vinorelbine (part A; 25 mg m(-2) per week) or oral vinorelbine (part B; 60 mg m(-2) per week, increased to 80 mg m(-2) per week at week 3). Secondary end points for expanded MTD cohorts included assessments of safety, pharmacokinetics, tumour response and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: The afatinib MTD was 40 mg with intravenous (MTD(A)) and oral (MTD(B)) vinorelbine. The most frequent cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicities were febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea, consistent with individual safety profiles of vinorelbine and afatinib. Common treatment-related adverse events included: diarrhoea (92.7%), asthenia (76.4%), nausea (63.6%), neutropenia (56.4%) and vomiting (54.5%). No notable pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Best overall tumour response was stable disease in part A (16 out of 28 patients), and partial response in part B (3 out of 27 patients). Median PFS was 14.6 and 15.9 weeks for patients treated at the MTD(A) and MTD(B), including dose-escalation and expansion cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Afatinib in combination with intravenous or oral vinorelbine demonstrated a manageable safety profile and antitumour activity at the MTD of 40 mg per day.
29337963	Vinorelbine	Febrile Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Phase I open-label study of afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with solid tumours overexpressing EGFR and/or HER2.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study evaluated afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with advanced solid tumours overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and/or human EGFR 2 (HER2). METHODS: Maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were determined for afatinib (20, 40 or 50 mg, once daily) combined with standard intravenous vinorelbine (part A; 25 mg m(-2) per week) or oral vinorelbine (part B; 60 mg m(-2) per week, increased to 80 mg m(-2) per week at week 3). Secondary end points for expanded MTD cohorts included assessments of safety, pharmacokinetics, tumour response and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: The afatinib MTD was 40 mg with intravenous (MTD(A)) and oral (MTD(B)) vinorelbine. The most frequent cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicities were febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea, consistent with individual safety profiles of vinorelbine and afatinib. Common treatment-related adverse events included: diarrhoea (92.7%), asthenia (76.4%), nausea (63.6%), neutropenia (56.4%) and vomiting (54.5%). No notable pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Best overall tumour response was stable disease in part A (16 out of 28 patients), and partial response in part B (3 out of 27 patients). Median PFS was 14.6 and 15.9 weeks for patients treated at the MTD(A) and MTD(B), including dose-escalation and expansion cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Afatinib in combination with intravenous or oral vinorelbine demonstrated a manageable safety profile and antitumour activity at the MTD of 40 mg per day.
29337963	Vinorelbine	Nausea	0	0	0	0		Phase I open-label study of afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with solid tumours overexpressing EGFR and/or HER2.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study evaluated afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with advanced solid tumours overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and/or human EGFR 2 (HER2). METHODS: Maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were determined for afatinib (20, 40 or 50 mg, once daily) combined with standard intravenous vinorelbine (part A; 25 mg m(-2) per week) or oral vinorelbine (part B; 60 mg m(-2) per week, increased to 80 mg m(-2) per week at week 3). Secondary end points for expanded MTD cohorts included assessments of safety, pharmacokinetics, tumour response and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: The afatinib MTD was 40 mg with intravenous (MTD(A)) and oral (MTD(B)) vinorelbine. The most frequent cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicities were febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea, consistent with individual safety profiles of vinorelbine and afatinib. Common treatment-related adverse events included: diarrhoea (92.7%), asthenia (76.4%), nausea (63.6%), neutropenia (56.4%) and vomiting (54.5%). No notable pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Best overall tumour response was stable disease in part A (16 out of 28 patients), and partial response in part B (3 out of 27 patients). Median PFS was 14.6 and 15.9 weeks for patients treated at the MTD(A) and MTD(B), including dose-escalation and expansion cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Afatinib in combination with intravenous or oral vinorelbine demonstrated a manageable safety profile and antitumour activity at the MTD of 40 mg per day.
29337963	Vinorelbine	Vomiting	0	0	0	0		Phase I open-label study of afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with solid tumours overexpressing EGFR and/or HER2.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study evaluated afatinib plus vinorelbine in patients with advanced solid tumours overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and/or human EGFR 2 (HER2). METHODS: Maximum tolerated doses (MTDs) were determined for afatinib (20, 40 or 50 mg, once daily) combined with standard intravenous vinorelbine (part A; 25 mg m(-2) per week) or oral vinorelbine (part B; 60 mg m(-2) per week, increased to 80 mg m(-2) per week at week 3). Secondary end points for expanded MTD cohorts included assessments of safety, pharmacokinetics, tumour response and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: The afatinib MTD was 40 mg with intravenous (MTD(A)) and oral (MTD(B)) vinorelbine. The most frequent cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicities were febrile neutropenia and diarrhoea, consistent with individual safety profiles of vinorelbine and afatinib. Common treatment-related adverse events included: diarrhoea (92.7%), asthenia (76.4%), nausea (63.6%), neutropenia (56.4%) and vomiting (54.5%). No notable pharmacokinetic interactions were observed. Best overall tumour response was stable disease in part A (16 out of 28 patients), and partial response in part B (3 out of 27 patients). Median PFS was 14.6 and 15.9 weeks for patients treated at the MTD(A) and MTD(B), including dose-escalation and expansion cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Afatinib in combination with intravenous or oral vinorelbine demonstrated a manageable safety profile and antitumour activity at the MTD of 40 mg per day.
30526658	Cyclophosphamide	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2	1	1	0	0	0.0	Difficult-to-diagnose diabetes in a patient treated with cyclophosphamide - the contradictory roles of immunosuppressant agents: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Cyclophosphamide may induce autoimmune diabetes through a decrease in suppressor T cells and increase of proinflammatory T helper type 1 response in animal models. In humans, this association is not as clear due to the presence of other risk factors for hyperglycemia, but it could be a precipitant for acute complications. CASE PRESENTATION: A 31-year-old Mestizo-Mexican woman with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus presented with severe diabetic ketoacidosis, shortly after initiating a multi-drug immunosuppressive therapy. She did not meet the diagnostic criteria for type 1 or type 2 diabetes and had no family history of hyperglycemic states. She persisted with hyperglycemia and high insulin requirements until the discontinuation of cyclophosphamide. After this episode, she recovered her endogenous insulin production and the antidiabetic agents were successfully withdrawn. After 1 year of follow up she is still normoglycemic. CONCLUSION: Cyclophosphamide may be an additional risk factor for acute hyperglycemic crisis. Glucose monitoring could be recommended during and after this treatment.
29027290	Trastuzumab	Chills	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pertuzumab and trastuzumab infusion related cytokine release syndrome in a chemotherapy naive patient with metastatic breast cancer.	Pertuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that targets and down regulates HER-2/neu expression in ductal breast tumors. Other HER-2/neu monoclonal antibodies, particularly trastuzumab, have been implicated to induce infusion related reactions such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS). Here, we report a case of pertuzumab associated CRS prior to infusion of trastuzumab which warranted hospitalization for symptom management.
29027290	Trastuzumab	Tachycardia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pertuzumab and trastuzumab infusion related cytokine release syndrome in a chemotherapy naive patient with metastatic breast cancer.	Pertuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that targets and down regulates HER-2/neu expression in ductal breast tumors. Other HER-2/neu monoclonal antibodies, particularly trastuzumab, have been implicated to induce infusion related reactions such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS). Here, we report a case of pertuzumab associated CRS prior to infusion of trastuzumab which warranted hospitalization for symptom management.
28349748	Succimer	Exanthema	1	0	0	0		Rash and pyrexia after succimer (dimercaptosuccinic acid; DMSA).	
28349748	Succimer	Fever	1	0	0	0		Rash and pyrexia after succimer (dimercaptosuccinic acid; DMSA).	
28209929	Ampicillin	Shock, Cardiogenic	1	0	0	0		Ampicillin/sulbactam-induced Kounis syndrome with cardiogenic shock.	
28209929	Sulbactam	Shock, Cardiogenic	1	0	0	0		Ampicillin/sulbactam-induced Kounis syndrome with cardiogenic shock.	
30788023	Loperamide	Brugada Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Loperamide Mimicking Brugada Pattern.	Brugada syndrome is an inherited arrhythmia that increases a patient's risk of sudden cardiac death. Certain pharmacologic agents may induce a transient Brugada pattern on surface electrocardiogram (EKG). One of these is loperamide, an over-the-counter agent commonly used to manage diarrhea. We report the case of a patient who experienced EKG changes that mimicked Brugada pattern after excessive intake of loperamide.
30773522	Adalimumab	Rheumatoid Vasculitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute Pulmonary Hypertension Crisis after Adalimumab Reduction in Rheumatoid Vasculitis.	Rheumatoid vasculitis is a rare etiology for pulmonary hypertension (PH) in patients with connective tissue disease. We encountered a case of acute PH crisis in a case with rheumatoid vasculitis eight months after undergoing adalimumab reduction. Since no repetition of arthralgia occurred after the adalimumab reduction, we decided to not increase the dose of adalimumab. However, hemodynamic collapse thereafter developed and even though steroid pulse therapy was administered, the patient nevertheless died. The autopsy showed clusters of acute and chronic inflammation around the remodeled pulmonary arteries along with micro-thrombi in the vessel lumen. We should consider the possibility of critical worsening of PH as a phenotype of vasculitis related to immunosuppressive therapy reduction.
30674741	Micafungin	Leukopenia	0	0	1	1		Leukopenia induced by micafungin in a bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus): a case report.	A bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) housed in the Port of Nagoya Public Aquarium (PNPA) presented with symptomatic pneumonia caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. The dolphin was treated with micafungin. On days 2 and 11 after the first administration of micafungin, results from a physical examination and laboratory test indicated a decline of body temperature (BT) and leukopenia, with lowest BT, white blood cells (WBCs), and segmented neutrophils (SEGs) of 34.2 degrees C, 600 cells/microl, and 67 cells/microl, respectively. BT, WBCs, and SEGs returned to normal range after administration of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of micafungin-induced decline of BT and leukopenia that was successfully treated with G-CSF in a bottlenose dolphin.
30630756	Etanercept	Cerebral Arterial Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome after Administering Etanercept during Puerperium.	Our objective is to clarify relationship between reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome and administrating etanercept during puerperium. Several lines of evidence have suggested tumor necrosis factor (TNF) as a mediator of vascular dysfunction associated with estrogen deficiency. A 32-year-old woman resumed etanercept (25 mg/week), a TNF inhibitor, which had been discontinued during pregnancy, because of the deterioration of rheumatoid arthritis. She was admitted to our hospital with upper right quadrant blindness and mild right hemiparesis accompanied by pulsating left occipital pain, which had appeared 4 hours after restarting etanercept (25 mg/week). Magnetic resonance imaging and angiography revealed acute left hippocampal infarction with multiple segmental stenoses of the main intracranial arteries. Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome was diagnosed based on improvement of the multiple stenoses on magnetic resonance angiography on hospital day 17. A causal relationship was considered to exist between TNF inhibition by etanercept and multiple cerebral vasoconstrictions with brain infarct in this puerperant.
30507894	Orlistat	Abdominal Pain	0	1	0	0		Demographic and clinical characteristics, and adverse reactions of people with overweight and obesity consumers of orlistat, attended by a call center (2009  2017).	INTRODUCTION: Chronic diseases are on the rise and are associated with weight gain. Multidisciplinary strategies are required for its control. METHODS: The design was descriptive, observational and retrospective. The objectives of this communication were to describe the demographic and clinical characteristics and adverse reactions of overweight and obese people who were consumers of orlistat, attended by a call center during the period 2009 to 2017; and to identify the healthcare professional most consulted by them. The information was obtained from an existing database of a program of attention to people with overweight or obesity, interested in using orlistat (prospects) or users (patients). The study was carried out in Mexico and lasted seven years. The variables studied were demographic, clinical and adverse reactions. RESULTS: A total of 311,913 requests were collected from 126 607 subjects (104 711 prospects interested in consuming orlistat and 21 896 patients who already took it). The main activities were phone calls to the subject (35.9%). There were 104 711 requests: 82 810 (79.1%) prospects and 21 896 (20.9%) patients. 79.9% of all were female. The predominant age interval was 32 to 45 years. 43 adverse reactions (0.02%) were detected; the most common were abdominal pain (0.05%) and headache (0.03%). CONCLUSIONS: The population most interested in weight control in this study was the female population (79.9%) and the age group from 32 to 45 years. The most consulted healthcare professional was the nutritionist. Only the body mass index (29.2 kilograms per square meter) of the subjects who developed 43 adverse reactions was obtained. There were 43 adverse reactions, the most common being abdominal pain and headache.
30239071	Arsenic Trioxide	Carcinoma, Basal Cell	1	1	1	1	1.0	Multiple Bowen's diseases and basal cell carcinomas in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with arsenic trioxide: A case report and effective treatment with photodynamic therapy.	It is very rare that multiple Bowen's disease (BD) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) lesions develop in a single patient. Routine therapy for the multiple lesions is not satisfactory. The present authors report on a patient who had developed multiple BD and BCC lesions for 12 years after arsenic trioxide treatment for his acute promyelocytic leukemia 20 years before. The patient with multiple lesions was successfully treated with photodynamic therapy.
30239071	Arsenic Trioxide	Skin Neoplasms	1	1	1	1	1.0	Multiple Bowen's diseases and basal cell carcinomas in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with arsenic trioxide: A case report and effective treatment with photodynamic therapy.	It is very rare that multiple Bowen's disease (BD) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) lesions develop in a single patient. Routine therapy for the multiple lesions is not satisfactory. The present authors report on a patient who had developed multiple BD and BCC lesions for 12 years after arsenic trioxide treatment for his acute promyelocytic leukemia 20 years before. The patient with multiple lesions was successfully treated with photodynamic therapy.
29974459	Neostigmine	Lung Diseases	0	0	0	0		Implementation of a new strategy to improve the peri-operative management of neuromuscular blockade and its effects on postoperative pulmonary complications.	Inappropriate dosing of neostigmine for antagonism of neuromuscular blockade has been associated with postoperative pulmonary complications. We evaluated the effects of a quality improvement initiative tailored to optimise the use of neostigmine in antagonising neuromuscular blockade on postoperative pulmonary complications, costs and duration of hospital stay. The quality improvement initiative consisted of: a reduction in available neostigmine aliquot sizes; a cognitive aid; an educational component; and a financial incentive for the intra-operative documentation of train-of-four measurement before administration of neostigmine. We conducted a pre-specified analysis of data obtained in our quality improvement study. Additional analyses were conducted in a propensity-matched cohort. An interrupted time series design was used to discriminate between the intervention and a counterfactual scenario. We analysed 12,025 consecutive surgical cases performed in 2015. Postoperative pulmonary complications occurred in 220 (7.5%) of 2937 cases pre-intervention and 568 (6.3%) of 9088 cases post-intervention. Adjusted regression analyses showed significantly a lower risk of postoperative pulmonary complications (OR 0.73 (95%CI 0.61-0.88); p = 0.001), lower costs (incidence rate ratio 0.95 (95%CI 0.93-0.97); p < 0.001) and shorter duration of hospital stay (incidence rate ratio 0.91 (95%CI 0.87-0.94); p < 0.001) after implementation of the quality improvement initiative. Analyses in a propensity-matched sample (n = 2936 per group) and interrupted time series analysis (n = 27,202 cases) confirmed the findings. Our data show that a local, multifaceted quality improvement initiative can enhance the quality of intra-operative neuromuscular blocking agent utilisation, thereby reducing the incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications.
29888611	Trimetazidine	Acute Kidney Injury	0	0	0	0		Trimetazidine in the Prevention of Tissue Ischemic Conditions.	Trimetazidine (TMZ) is a metabolic agent with significant anti-ischemic properties. By inhibiting the terminal enzyme in the beta-oxidation pathway, it shifts the energy substrate metabolism, enhancing glucose metabolism. Thus, it maintains the required energy production with less oxygen consumption, an effect necessary in cases of myocardi. Trimetazidine was recently reaccredited as add-on therapy for symptomatic treatment in patients with stable angina, not adequately controlled or intolerant to first-line therapy. Trimetazidine was included in the European Society of Cardioloy 2013 guidelines for the management of stable coronary artery disease. Although TMZ has been used in cardiology for >40 years, only a few studies have assessed its effects in patients with acute ischemic conditions. This review summarizes the current literature regarding the addition of TMZ in patients with acute ischemic conditions (acute myocardial infarction, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, percutaneous coronary intervention, and coronary artery bypass grafting). There is growing evidence from recent studies that the addition of TMZ in patients with such conditions is beneficial in terms of myocardial damage and major cardiac events as well as decreasing reperfusion injury and contrast-induced nephropathy.
29480028	Lamotrigine	Eosinophilia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risks associated with lamotrigine prescription: a review and personal observations.	OBJECTIVES: To detail some serious lamotrigine side effects and their management, and raise awareness about the possible lack of quality control of some brands of lamotrigine. METHODS: A literature review is provided and some personal observations added. RESULTS: While most psychiatrists are aware of the risks of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), awareness of two other serious side effects - toxic epidermal necrosis (TEN) and drug-related eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) - is seemingly lower. Awareness that failure to respond to lamotrigine and that the prevalence of serious side effects may reflect poor quality control of some preparations is also less well recognized. CONCLUSIONS: While lamotrigine may be retrialled at a lower dose escalation rate following some skin reactions, it should not be recommenced following a SJS, TEN or DRESS reaction. Prescribers should be aware of quality control concerns about some available brands of lamotrigine.
29237802	Lenalidomide	Anemia	0	0	0	0		Phase I Dose-Escalation Study of Anti-CTLA-4 Antibody Ipilimumab and Lenalidomide in Patients with Advanced Cancers.	Preclinical data suggest that combining a checkpoint inhibition with immunomodulatory derivative can increase anticancer response. We designed a dose-escalation study using a 3 + 3 design to determine the safety, maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase II dose (R2PD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of the anti-CTLA-4 antibody ipilimumab (1.5-3 mg/kg intravenously every 28 days x 4) and lenalidomide (10-25 mg orally daily for 21 of 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity) in advanced cancers. Total of 36 patients (Hodgkin lymphoma, 7; melanoma, 5; leiomyosarcoma, 4; renal cancer, 3; thyroid cancer, 3; other cancers, 14; median of 3 prior therapies) were enrolled. The MTD has not been reached and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and lenalidomide 25 mg have been declared as R2PD. DLT were grade (G) 3 rash (3 patients) and G3 pancreatitis (1 patient). G3/4 drug-related toxicities other than DLT were G3 anemia (5 patients), G3 thromboembolism (2 patients), G3 thrombocytopenia, G3 rash, G3 hypopituitarism, G3 pneumonitis, G3 transaminitis, and G4 hypopituitarism (all in 1 patient). Eight patients had tumor shrinkage per immune-related response criteria (-79% to -2%) including a PR (-79% for 7.2+ months) in a refractory Hodgkin lymphoma. Using comprehensive genomic profiling, a total mutation burden (mutations/Mb) was evaluated in 17 patients, with one of the patients achieving a PR demonstrated intermediate mutation burden. In conclusion, combination of ipilimumab and lenalidomide is well tolerated and demonstrated preliminary signals of activity in patients with refractory Hodgkin lymphoma and other advanced cancers. Mol Cancer Ther; 17(3); 671-6. (c)2017 AACR.
29198456	Venlafaxine Hydrochloride	Heart Arrest	0	0	0	0		First-in-Man Fully Percutaneous Complete Bypass of Heart and Lung.	
29198456	Venlafaxine Hydrochloride	Shock, Cardiogenic	0	0	0	0		First-in-Man Fully Percutaneous Complete Bypass of Heart and Lung.	
29052226	Fluconazole	Muscular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Translational High-Dimensional Drug Interaction Discovery and Validation Using Health Record Databases and Pharmacokinetics Models.	Polypharmacy increases the risk of drug-drug interactions (DDIs). Combining epidemiological studies with pharmacokinetic modeling, we detected and evaluated high-dimensional DDIs among 30 frequent drugs. Multidrug combinations that increased the risk of myopathy were identified in the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) and electronic medical record (EMR) databases by a mixture drug-count response model. CYP450 inhibition was estimated among the 30 drugs in the presence of 1 to 4 inhibitors using in vitro / in vivo extrapolation. Twenty-eight three-way and 43 four-way DDIs had significant myopathy risk in both databases and predicted increases in the area under the concentration-time curve ratio (AUCR) >2-fold. The high-dimensional DDI of omeprazole, fluconazole, and clonidine was associated with a 6.41-fold (FAERS) and 18.46-fold (EMR) increased risk of myopathy local false discovery rate (<0.005); the AUCR of omeprazole in this combination was 9.35. The combination of health record informatics and pharmacokinetic modeling is a powerful translational approach to detect high-dimensional DDIs.
28542914	Isotretinoin	Gastrointestinal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Efficacy and adverse events of oral isotretinoin for acne: a systematic review.	Despite many years of clinical use of isotretinoin, a comprehensive review of evidence for isotretinoin therapy in patients with acne is lacking. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central, relevant web pages and bibliographies for randomized controlled trials in acne evaluating isotretinoin vs. control (placebo or other therapy). Data were extracted and summarized descriptively. Eleven trials were identified (total 760 patients randomized), containing mostly men. Mean treatment ages ranged from 18 to 47.9 years and participants generally had moderate-to-severe acne. Across all trials, isotretinoin therapy reduced acne lesion counts by a clinically relevant amount, and always by a greater amount than control, which was either placebo (two studies), oral antibiotics (seven studies) or other control (two studies). Across trials with an overall low risk of bias, two of three demonstrated statistically significant differences between isotretinoin and control. The frequency of adverse events was twice as high with isotretinoin (751 events) than with control (388 events). More than half of all adverse events were dermatological and related to dryness. Adverse events from isotretinoin causing participant withdrawal from trials (12 patients) included Stevens-Johnson syndrome, cheilitis, xerosis, acne flare, photophobia, elevated liver enzymes, decreased appetite, headaches and depressed mood. This review suggests that isotretinoin is effective in reducing acne lesion counts, but adverse events are common. This study was registered with PROSPERO number CRD42015025080.
28542914	Isotretinoin	Otorhinolaryngologic Diseases	1	0	0	0		Efficacy and adverse events of oral isotretinoin for acne: a systematic review.	Despite many years of clinical use of isotretinoin, a comprehensive review of evidence for isotretinoin therapy in patients with acne is lacking. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central, relevant web pages and bibliographies for randomized controlled trials in acne evaluating isotretinoin vs. control (placebo or other therapy). Data were extracted and summarized descriptively. Eleven trials were identified (total 760 patients randomized), containing mostly men. Mean treatment ages ranged from 18 to 47.9 years and participants generally had moderate-to-severe acne. Across all trials, isotretinoin therapy reduced acne lesion counts by a clinically relevant amount, and always by a greater amount than control, which was either placebo (two studies), oral antibiotics (seven studies) or other control (two studies). Across trials with an overall low risk of bias, two of three demonstrated statistically significant differences between isotretinoin and control. The frequency of adverse events was twice as high with isotretinoin (751 events) than with control (388 events). More than half of all adverse events were dermatological and related to dryness. Adverse events from isotretinoin causing participant withdrawal from trials (12 patients) included Stevens-Johnson syndrome, cheilitis, xerosis, acne flare, photophobia, elevated liver enzymes, decreased appetite, headaches and depressed mood. This review suggests that isotretinoin is effective in reducing acne lesion counts, but adverse events are common. This study was registered with PROSPERO number CRD42015025080.
26635371	Quetiapine Fumarate	Torticollis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Quetiapine-induced cervical dystonia.	OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to report and describe a case of quetiapine-induced dystonia in an older lady with psychosis. Quetiapine is a second-generation antipsychotic and known to be rare in causing extrapyramidal side effects with rates similar to placebo. CONCLUSIONS: There have been few documented cases of quetiapine-induced dystonia. It is important to be vigilant and consider the development of dystonia in patients who may not fit the typical risk profile.
30567126	Liraglutide	Acidosis, Lactic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metformin-associated lactic acidosis precipitated by liraglutide use: adverse effects of aggressive antihyperglycaemic therapy.	Older patients with type 2 diabetes are prone to developing adverse events with aggressive antihyperglycaemic therapy. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA) is one such rare, life-threatening adverse drug effect. We report the case of a 70-year-old man with a glycated haemoglobin of 7.9% who was on a stable, maximally tolerated dose of metformin for managing his type 2 diabetes. He was initiated on liraglutide injections with hopes to achieve better glycaemic control, but developed unrelenting nausea and vomiting during the third week of treatment. He presented to the hospital with these symptoms and was noted to have severe MALA. He sustained an in-hospital cardiac arrest requiring emergent resuscitation along with vasopressor and mechanical ventilator support. He underwent continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration to remove metformin and correct the acidosis, following which he stabilised and supportive therapy was weaned off. He was discharged from the hospital on insulin therapy with incomplete renal recovery.
30567126	Metformin	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metformin-associated lactic acidosis precipitated by liraglutide use: adverse effects of aggressive antihyperglycaemic therapy.	Older patients with type 2 diabetes are prone to developing adverse events with aggressive antihyperglycaemic therapy. Metformin-associated lactic acidosis (MALA) is one such rare, life-threatening adverse drug effect. We report the case of a 70-year-old man with a glycated haemoglobin of 7.9% who was on a stable, maximally tolerated dose of metformin for managing his type 2 diabetes. He was initiated on liraglutide injections with hopes to achieve better glycaemic control, but developed unrelenting nausea and vomiting during the third week of treatment. He presented to the hospital with these symptoms and was noted to have severe MALA. He sustained an in-hospital cardiac arrest requiring emergent resuscitation along with vasopressor and mechanical ventilator support. He underwent continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration to remove metformin and correct the acidosis, following which he stabilised and supportive therapy was weaned off. He was discharged from the hospital on insulin therapy with incomplete renal recovery.
30499776	Bupropion	Tic Disorders	1	1	0	1	0.0	Bupropion-Related Exacerbation of Tic Disorder in an Adult: A Case Report.	Bupropion is antidepressant and a smoking cessation aid medication related to dopaminergic activity. We report for the first time a case of an older adult with a known tic disorder, which was in remission but exacerbated during treatment with bupropion. It has been reported that other dopaminergic compounds such as methylphenidate can exacerbate tic disorder. Clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse effect when prescribing bupropion to adults with tic and other motor disorders.
30398989	Sertraline	Hiccup	1	1	1	1	1.0	Possible Sertraline-Induced Hiccups in a Boy With Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder and Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder.	Hiccup is a sudden-onset repeated involuntary and spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm and intercostal muscle accompanied by laryngeal closure, generating the characteristic inspiratory sound and discomfort. Various factors including drugs may trigger the hiccups. There are some reports regarding the possible links between psychotropic agents that can affect the dopaminergic system and the triggering of hiccup; however, to our knowledge, there are no data regarding sertraline-induced hiccup. We present the case of a boy with obsessive-compulsive disorder and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder who displayed hiccup after sertraline therapy.
29969663	Thalidomide	Conjunctivitis	1	0	0	0		Chronic tearing induced by apremilast.	
28102146	Alemtuzumab	Central Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Severe B-cell-mediated CNS disease secondary to alemtuzumab therapy.	
28644226	Ropivacaine	Horner Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Possible allergic reaction after outpatient surgery.	
30399387	Nivolumab	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Inflammatory eruptions associated with immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy: A single-institution retrospective analysis with stratification of reactions by toxicity and implications for management.	BACKGROUND: There is increasing recognition of distinct inflammatory eruptions associated with checkpoint inhibitors. A better understanding of their severity, therapeutic response, and impact on cancer treatment is needed. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the different rashes associated with immunotherapy referred to our institution's oncodermatology clinic and inpatient consultative service and to evaluate their therapeutic response and impact on immunotherapy. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients referred to the oncodermatology clinic or inpatient dermatology service during 2016-2018 at Yale-New Haven Hospital for eruptions that developed during immunotherapy. RESULTS: In total, 98 patients (51 men, 47 women) treated with checkpoint inhibitors developed 103 inflammatory eruptions, with a range of mean latency of 0.2-17.7 months. A minority of patients (25/103; 24.3%) required immunotherapy interruption; most of these cases involved immunobullous (7/8; 87.5%), lichenoid (8/26; 30.8%), maculopapular (6/18; 33.3%), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome-like (2/2, 100%) reactions. Only 3 of 16 (18.8%) patients who had their immunotherapy interrupted had a grade 2 or 3 flare on rechallenge. Most reactions (93/103; 90.3%) responded to dermatologic therapy or immunotherapy interruption. LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study from a single tertiary care center. CONCLUSION: A variety of inflammatory reactions might occur from immunotherapy with differing degrees of severity. While most rashes responded to topical treatment, immunobullous and exfoliative presentations frequently interrupted immunotherapy. Increased awareness and early recognition could reduce the need for unnecessary immunotherapy interruption.
30399387	Nivolumab	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Inflammatory eruptions associated with immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy: A single-institution retrospective analysis with stratification of reactions by toxicity and implications for management.	BACKGROUND: There is increasing recognition of distinct inflammatory eruptions associated with checkpoint inhibitors. A better understanding of their severity, therapeutic response, and impact on cancer treatment is needed. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the different rashes associated with immunotherapy referred to our institution's oncodermatology clinic and inpatient consultative service and to evaluate their therapeutic response and impact on immunotherapy. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients referred to the oncodermatology clinic or inpatient dermatology service during 2016-2018 at Yale-New Haven Hospital for eruptions that developed during immunotherapy. RESULTS: In total, 98 patients (51 men, 47 women) treated with checkpoint inhibitors developed 103 inflammatory eruptions, with a range of mean latency of 0.2-17.7 months. A minority of patients (25/103; 24.3%) required immunotherapy interruption; most of these cases involved immunobullous (7/8; 87.5%), lichenoid (8/26; 30.8%), maculopapular (6/18; 33.3%), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome-like (2/2, 100%) reactions. Only 3 of 16 (18.8%) patients who had their immunotherapy interrupted had a grade 2 or 3 flare on rechallenge. Most reactions (93/103; 90.3%) responded to dermatologic therapy or immunotherapy interruption. LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study from a single tertiary care center. CONCLUSION: A variety of inflammatory reactions might occur from immunotherapy with differing degrees of severity. While most rashes responded to topical treatment, immunobullous and exfoliative presentations frequently interrupted immunotherapy. Increased awareness and early recognition could reduce the need for unnecessary immunotherapy interruption.
30352280	Spironolactone	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	0	0	0		Lack of evidence for feminization of males exposed to spironolactone in utero: A systematic review.	
30287313	Doxycycline	Infertility, Male	1	1	0	0	0.0	Infertility and teratogenicity after paternal exposure to systemic dermatologic medications: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: This systematic review assesses effects of paternal exposure to dermatologic medications by using the former US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pregnancy categories as a benchmark. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether systemic dermatologic medications can cause infertility and teratogenicity when taken by men. METHODS: Categories D and X dermatologic medications were identified; a systematic review of the literature and reviews of the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System and prescribing information were performed to identify the effects of these medications on male fertility and teratogenicity. A secondary search was performed to assess for other systemic dermatologic medications causing teratogenicity or infertility following paternal exposure. RESULTS: A total of 13 medications met the inclusion criteria. Of 1,032 studies identified, 19 were included after a systematic review of the literature. Studies evaluating medication effects with paternal exposure were identified for 10 of the 13 evaluated medications, and evidence of a negative effect was identified for 6 medications. LIMITATIONS: We did not encounter any studies for 3 medications that met the inclusion criteria. Information submitted to the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System may not reflect the incidence of side effects. CONCLUSIONS: Many former pregnancy category D and X systemic dermatologic medications also have effects on male fertility. More research and better-quality studies are required in this area, particularly studies assessing potential teratogenicity.
30287313	Isotretinoin	Infertility, Male	1	1	0	0	0.0	Infertility and teratogenicity after paternal exposure to systemic dermatologic medications: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: This systematic review assesses effects of paternal exposure to dermatologic medications by using the former US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pregnancy categories as a benchmark. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether systemic dermatologic medications can cause infertility and teratogenicity when taken by men. METHODS: Categories D and X dermatologic medications were identified; a systematic review of the literature and reviews of the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System and prescribing information were performed to identify the effects of these medications on male fertility and teratogenicity. A secondary search was performed to assess for other systemic dermatologic medications causing teratogenicity or infertility following paternal exposure. RESULTS: A total of 13 medications met the inclusion criteria. Of 1,032 studies identified, 19 were included after a systematic review of the literature. Studies evaluating medication effects with paternal exposure were identified for 10 of the 13 evaluated medications, and evidence of a negative effect was identified for 6 medications. LIMITATIONS: We did not encounter any studies for 3 medications that met the inclusion criteria. Information submitted to the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System may not reflect the incidence of side effects. CONCLUSIONS: Many former pregnancy category D and X systemic dermatologic medications also have effects on male fertility. More research and better-quality studies are required in this area, particularly studies assessing potential teratogenicity.
30287313	Tetracycline	Infertility, Male	1	1	0	0	0.0	Infertility and teratogenicity after paternal exposure to systemic dermatologic medications: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: This systematic review assesses effects of paternal exposure to dermatologic medications by using the former US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pregnancy categories as a benchmark. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether systemic dermatologic medications can cause infertility and teratogenicity when taken by men. METHODS: Categories D and X dermatologic medications were identified; a systematic review of the literature and reviews of the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System and prescribing information were performed to identify the effects of these medications on male fertility and teratogenicity. A secondary search was performed to assess for other systemic dermatologic medications causing teratogenicity or infertility following paternal exposure. RESULTS: A total of 13 medications met the inclusion criteria. Of 1,032 studies identified, 19 were included after a systematic review of the literature. Studies evaluating medication effects with paternal exposure were identified for 10 of the 13 evaluated medications, and evidence of a negative effect was identified for 6 medications. LIMITATIONS: We did not encounter any studies for 3 medications that met the inclusion criteria. Information submitted to the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System may not reflect the incidence of side effects. CONCLUSIONS: Many former pregnancy category D and X systemic dermatologic medications also have effects on male fertility. More research and better-quality studies are required in this area, particularly studies assessing potential teratogenicity.
30287313	Thalidomide	Infertility, Male	1	1	0	0	0.0	Infertility and teratogenicity after paternal exposure to systemic dermatologic medications: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: This systematic review assesses effects of paternal exposure to dermatologic medications by using the former US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pregnancy categories as a benchmark. OBJECTIVE: To assess whether systemic dermatologic medications can cause infertility and teratogenicity when taken by men. METHODS: Categories D and X dermatologic medications were identified; a systematic review of the literature and reviews of the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System and prescribing information were performed to identify the effects of these medications on male fertility and teratogenicity. A secondary search was performed to assess for other systemic dermatologic medications causing teratogenicity or infertility following paternal exposure. RESULTS: A total of 13 medications met the inclusion criteria. Of 1,032 studies identified, 19 were included after a systematic review of the literature. Studies evaluating medication effects with paternal exposure were identified for 10 of the 13 evaluated medications, and evidence of a negative effect was identified for 6 medications. LIMITATIONS: We did not encounter any studies for 3 medications that met the inclusion criteria. Information submitted to the FDA Adverse Events Reporting System may not reflect the incidence of side effects. CONCLUSIONS: Many former pregnancy category D and X systemic dermatologic medications also have effects on male fertility. More research and better-quality studies are required in this area, particularly studies assessing potential teratogenicity.
29956855	4-Aminopyridine	Hypertension, Pulmonary	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pulmonary arterial hypertension in patient treated for multiple sclerosis with 4-aminopyridine.	4-Aminopyridine (4-AP) is a recent treatment indicated to improve walking in patient with multiple sclerosis. We report the first case of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) that we attribute to the use of 4-AP. A 64-year-old woman with multiple sclerosis presented with dyspnea. After excluding other secondary causes of pulmonary hypertension, a diagnosis of severe PAH due to 4-AP was made based on right heart catheterization. History revealed that the dyspnea began with the initiation of 4-AP. After discontinuation of 4-AP therapy and initiation of ambrisentan and tadalafil, dyspnea and pulmonary arterial pressure have improved significantly and one specific PAH treatment was stopped. 4-AP is an outward rectifying potassium channel blocker with a vasoconstrictor effect in animal's pulmonary artery. According to the chronological sequence of events, the lack of other etiology, and its pharmacological plausibility, 4-AP is highly suspected to have induced our patient's PAH.
29085952	Pantoprazole	Anaphylaxis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Immediate type reactions to proton pump inhibitors using pantoprazole and omeprazole as examples].	Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) belong to the most frequently taken drugs worldwide. Hypersensitivity to these medications is rare, but can lead to severe immediate type reactions. Especially cross-reactivity between the different PPIs can occur. In this case series, we describe 4 patients with immediate type reactions to pantoprazole and/or omeprazole.
30947791	Levamisole	Soft Tissue Infections	1	0	0	0		Necrotizing Soft Tissue Infection Complicating Levamisole-Induced Vasculitis.	
30869204	Lurasidone Hydrochloride	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Food Matters: Reduction of Lurasidone-Induced Nausea With Meals.	
30817864	Olanzapine	Fever	1	0	0	0		Olanzapine-Induced Fever.	
30817863	Paliperidone Palmitate	Exanthema	1	0	0	0		Paliperidone Injection-Associated Delayed-Onset Rash.	
30806996	Citalopram	Exanthema	1	0	0	0		Escitalopram-Induced Rash.	
30383755	Etoricoxib	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of acute myocardial infarction during use of individual NSAIDs: A nested case-control study from the SOS project.	BACKGROUND: Use of selective COX-2 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (coxibs) has been associated with an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, the risk of AMI has only been studied for very few NSAIDs that are frequently used. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the risk of AMI for individual NSAIDs. METHODS: A nested case-control study was performed from a cohort of new NSAID users >/=18 years (1999-2011) matching cases to a maximum of 100 controls on database, sex, age, and calendar time. Data were retrieved from six healthcare databases. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) of current use of individual NSAIDs compared to past use were estimated per database. Pooling was done by two-stage pooling using a random effects model (ORmeta) and by one-stage pooling (ORpool). RESULTS: Among 8.5 million new NSAID users, 79,553 AMI cases were identified. The risk was elevated for current use of ketorolac (ORmeta 2.06;95%CI 1.83-2.32, ORpool 1.80; 1.49-2.18) followed, in descending order of point estimate, by indometacin, etoricoxib, rofecoxib, diclofenac, fixed combination of diclofenac with misoprostol, piroxicam, ibuprofen, naproxen, celecoxib, meloxicam, nimesulide and ketoprofen (ORmeta 1.12; 1.03-1.22, ORpool 1.00;0.86-1.16). Higher doses showed higher risk estimates than lower doses. CONCLUSIONS: The relative risk estimates of AMI differed slightly between 28 individual NSAIDs. The relative risk was highest for ketorolac and was correlated with COX-2 potency, but not restricted to coxibs.
30383755	Indomethacin	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of acute myocardial infarction during use of individual NSAIDs: A nested case-control study from the SOS project.	BACKGROUND: Use of selective COX-2 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (coxibs) has been associated with an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, the risk of AMI has only been studied for very few NSAIDs that are frequently used. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the risk of AMI for individual NSAIDs. METHODS: A nested case-control study was performed from a cohort of new NSAID users >/=18 years (1999-2011) matching cases to a maximum of 100 controls on database, sex, age, and calendar time. Data were retrieved from six healthcare databases. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) of current use of individual NSAIDs compared to past use were estimated per database. Pooling was done by two-stage pooling using a random effects model (ORmeta) and by one-stage pooling (ORpool). RESULTS: Among 8.5 million new NSAID users, 79,553 AMI cases were identified. The risk was elevated for current use of ketorolac (ORmeta 2.06;95%CI 1.83-2.32, ORpool 1.80; 1.49-2.18) followed, in descending order of point estimate, by indometacin, etoricoxib, rofecoxib, diclofenac, fixed combination of diclofenac with misoprostol, piroxicam, ibuprofen, naproxen, celecoxib, meloxicam, nimesulide and ketoprofen (ORmeta 1.12; 1.03-1.22, ORpool 1.00;0.86-1.16). Higher doses showed higher risk estimates than lower doses. CONCLUSIONS: The relative risk estimates of AMI differed slightly between 28 individual NSAIDs. The relative risk was highest for ketorolac and was correlated with COX-2 potency, but not restricted to coxibs.
30383755	Ketorolac	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of acute myocardial infarction during use of individual NSAIDs: A nested case-control study from the SOS project.	BACKGROUND: Use of selective COX-2 non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (coxibs) has been associated with an increased risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, the risk of AMI has only been studied for very few NSAIDs that are frequently used. OBJECTIVES: To estimate the risk of AMI for individual NSAIDs. METHODS: A nested case-control study was performed from a cohort of new NSAID users >/=18 years (1999-2011) matching cases to a maximum of 100 controls on database, sex, age, and calendar time. Data were retrieved from six healthcare databases. Adjusted odds ratios (ORs) of current use of individual NSAIDs compared to past use were estimated per database. Pooling was done by two-stage pooling using a random effects model (ORmeta) and by one-stage pooling (ORpool). RESULTS: Among 8.5 million new NSAID users, 79,553 AMI cases were identified. The risk was elevated for current use of ketorolac (ORmeta 2.06;95%CI 1.83-2.32, ORpool 1.80; 1.49-2.18) followed, in descending order of point estimate, by indometacin, etoricoxib, rofecoxib, diclofenac, fixed combination of diclofenac with misoprostol, piroxicam, ibuprofen, naproxen, celecoxib, meloxicam, nimesulide and ketoprofen (ORmeta 1.12; 1.03-1.22, ORpool 1.00;0.86-1.16). Higher doses showed higher risk estimates than lower doses. CONCLUSIONS: The relative risk estimates of AMI differed slightly between 28 individual NSAIDs. The relative risk was highest for ketorolac and was correlated with COX-2 potency, but not restricted to coxibs.
30374764	Sunitinib	Fatigue	1	0	0	0		Can levocarnitine supplementation improve fatigue caused by sunitinib as a treatment for renal cell carcinoma? A single-center prospective pilot study.	PURPOSE: To evaluate the potential role of levocarnitine supplementation for cancer-related fatigue in patients treated with sunitinib. METHODS: Patients treated with sunitinib for unresectable or metastatic renal cell carcinoma were enrolled prospectively. Assessment of fatigue in each patient was done using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) questionnaire. Evaluation of fatigue and the serum carnitine level was done at baseline, 2 weeks, and 4 weeks after sunitinib therapy was initiated. All patients were treated with sunitinib 37.5 mg or 50 mg/day orally, with a 4-week administration and 2-week discontinuation schedule. RESULTS: Ten patients were finally enrolled in the study. Seven of them had worsened fatigue at the 2-week assessment and levocarnitine was administrated. All these seven patients whose serum carnitine level at 2 weeks was worse than at the baseline improved after 2-week-L-carnitine supplementation. For six of the seven (85.7%) patients who had L-carnitine supplementation, the BFI score at 4 weeks decreased compared to that at 2 weeks, which indicated improvement of fatigue. CONCLUSIONS: Levocarnitine supplementation for cancer-related fatigue in patients treated with sunitinib appears to have a potential benefit. However, further study with a larger number of patients and longer follow-up is crucial to confirm this.
30096703	Vemurafenib	Arthralgia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Possible immune adverse events as predictors of durable response to BRAF inhibitors in patients with BRAF V600-mutant metastatic melanoma.	BRAF inhibitors (BRAFi) and MEK inhibitors (MEKi) are among the cornerstones of metastatic melanoma therapy demonstrating excellent response rates with duration of 7-12 m. Long-term benefit from these agents was reported in patients with normal lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and less than three disease sites. However, a treatment-dependent marker for long-term efficacy is lacking. Data suggest that immune-related adverse events (irAEs) are associated with clinical benefit in patients treated with immunotherapy and that response to BRAF/MEK therapy may have an underlying immune mechanism. We hypothesised that AEs with an underlying immune mechanism may be associated with a durable response to targeted therapy. We retrospectively identified a cohort of 78 BRAF V600-mutant metastatic melanoma patients treated with BRAFi or BRAFi + MEKi between November 2010 and November 2013. Four treatment-related AEs including vitiligo, uveitis, erythema nodosum and keratitis sicca were defined as irAEs of interest. Retrospective analysis of AEs in relationship to progression-free survival (PFS), disease burden and LDH levels was performed. Median PFS (mPFS) for all patients was 7.5 months with responses ongoing in eight patients as of April 2017. Ten patients were identified with the AEs defined previously. Cox regression analysis revealed a very strong association between those AEs and PFS; mPFS was 42.8 m in patients with at least one AE versus 6.1 m in those without an AE (hazard ratio [HR] 0.22, p = 0.002). This association was independent of LDH levels and disease burden (HR 0.24, p = 0.035). This analysis demonstrates a strong association between immune AEs and durable response to targeted therapy and may provide a treatment-related biomarker to estimate the outcome of therapy.
30017385	Infliximab	Nocardia Infections	1	0	0	0		Nocardiosis in a patient with anti-PD-1-associated colitis treated with infliximab.	
30017380	Axitinib	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		Fatal autoimmune myocarditis with anti-PD-L1 and tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy for renal cell cancer.	
29965953	Rituximab	Proteinuria	1	0	0	0		Efficient B cell Depletion With Rituximab Despite Massive Proteinuria.	
29923298	Insulin Glargine	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Low incidence of gastrointestinal adverse events over time with a fixed-ratio combination of insulin glargine and lixisenatide versus lixisenatide alone.	This post hoc analysis of gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events (AEs) from the phase 3 LixiLan-L (NCT02058160) and LixiLan-O (NCT02058147) trials aimed to determine the frequency and timing of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea for iGlarLixi, a titratable, fixed-ratio combination of insulin glargine 100 units/mL (iGlar) and lixisenatide, versus iGlar alone or iGlar and lixisenatide alone, in patients with type 2 diabetes uncontrolled with oral antidiabetes drugs (OADs) or basal insulin +/- OADs. In iGlarLixi-treated patients, the rate of GI AEs during the initial weeks of treatment was lower versus patients treated with lixisenatide alone (9.6% and 11.7% of iGlarLixi-treated patients in LixiLan-L and LixiLan-O, respectively, vs. 27.5% of lixisenatide-treated patients in LixiLan-O). Beyond day 60, these rates were generally low and similar to those of lixisenatide. These lower rates are likely due to the gradual titration of lixisenatide in iGlarLixi. Median durations of intermittent GI AEs in the iGlarLixi arms were 6.0, 2.0 and 2.5 days (LixiLan-L), and 5.0, 1.0 and 3.5 days (LixiLan-O), respectively. iGlarLixi-associated GI AEs were transient, mostly mild or moderate in severity, and occurred mainly during initial titration.
29920744	Nivolumab	Lichen Planus	1	0	0	0		Linear bullous lichen planus associated with nivolumab.	
29848361	Febuxostat	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of febuxostat extended release and immediate release in patients with gout and moderate renal impairment: phase II placebo-controlled study.	BACKGROUND: Febuxostat immediate release (IR), a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, is indicated for the management of hyperuricemia in patients with gout by lowering urate levels. An extended release (XR) formulation of febuxostat was developed to provide equal or superior efficacy on urate lowering compared with the IR formulation and potentially lower the risk of treatment-initiated gout flares due to an altered pattern of drug exposure. The present study evaluated the efficacy and safety of febuxostat XR and IR formulations in patients with gout and moderate renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtrate rate >/= 30 and < 60 ml/min). METHODS: This was an exploratory, 3-month, phase II, multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind proof-of-concept study. Patients (n = 189) were randomized 1:1:1:1:1 to receive placebo or febuxostat IR 40 mg, XR 40 mg, IR 80 mg, or XR 80 mg once daily. Endpoints included: proportion of patients with serum uric acid (sUA) < 5.0 mg/dl at month 3 (primary endpoint), proportion of patients with sUA < 6.0 mg/dl at month 3, and proportion of patients with >/= 1 gout flare requiring treatment over 3 months. RESULTS: At month 3, all febuxostat treatment groups were associated with greater proportions of patients achieving sUA < 5.0 mg/dl (p < 0.05 vs placebo). A greater proportion of patients receiving XR 40 mg achieved sUA < 5.0 mg/dl versus those receiving IR 40 mg (p = 0.034); proportions were similar in the IR 80 mg and XR 80 mg groups. Higher proportions of febuxostat-treated patients achieved sUA < 6.0 mg/dl at month 3 (p < 0.05 vs placebo) and experienced >/= 1 gout flare (significant for all comparisons, except XR 40 mg). Incidences of treatment-related adverse events were low across all treatment groups; the majority were mild or moderate with no apparent trends correlating with IR or XR doses. The most common treatment-emergent adverse event was hypertension. One death (unrelated to the study drug) was reported. CONCLUSIONS: These exploratory data demonstrate that febuxostat (XR and IR) formulations were effective and well tolerated in patients with gout and moderate renal impairment. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT02128490 Registered on 29 April 2014.
29720333	Chromium	Inflammation	0	1	0	0		Short-term in vivo evaluation of cellular DNA damage induced by fixed orthodontic appliances.	Metal ions accumulate inside the epithelial cells of the oral mucosa and damage the DNA. The aim of this study was to analyze whether DNA damage and/or apoptosis also occurs after a short-term exposure to the metals of fixed orthodontic appliances. 23 subjects were enrolled in the test group and 8 patients in the control group. Analyses performed on samples of oral mucosa were cell count, cellular viability, quantification of intracellular metal concentration, comet and micronuclei tests and quantification of intracellular Glutathione (GSH). The obtained results indicated that orthodontic appliances release metal ions, especially chromium, that cause inflammatory processes leading to DNA damages. These phenomenon are visible only after 30 days from application of fixed orthodontic appliances.
29400287	Afatinib	Skin Diseases, Vesiculobullous	1	0	0	0		Improvement of erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp following discontinuation of chemotherapy with afatinib.	
30654041	Atovaquone	Abortion, Spontaneous	0	1	0	0		The safety of atovaquone-proguanil for the prevention and treatment of malaria in pregnancy: A systematic review.	BACKGROUND: Malaria infection poses a significant risk in pregnancy, yet chemoprophylaxis for pregnant women is limited. A systematic review was conducted to evaluate the incidence of adverse outcomes after atovaquone-proguanil (AP) exposure during pregnancy. METHODS: Following PRISMA guidelines, the authors searched PubMed, MEDLINE, and the Malaria in Pregnancy Consortium Library to identify relevant literature including infant outcomes after exposure to atovaquone, proguanil, or AP in pregnancy. Two authors independently screened the titles, abstracts, and full texts, and extracted data into an EpiInfo database. Overall proportions and 95% confidence intervals of adverse outcomes were determined by pooling data across studies. RESULTS: Of 455 records identified, 16 studies were included: ten AP studies and six proguanil studies. The overall proportions and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of adverse outcomes reported for the 446 women exposed to AP include miscarriage (8.08% CI: 5.07, 12.08%), stillbirth (1.05% CI: 0.03, 5.73%), early neonatal death (0% CI: 0, 7.4%), and congenital anomalies (2.56% CI: 1.28, 4.53%). CONCLUSIONS: The limited available data suggest that outcomes following AP exposure during pregnancy are similar to expected rates in similar populations. AP may be a promising option for pregnant women, but further data are needed on its safety in pregnancy.
30389542	Cyproterone Acetate	Vascular Diseases	0	1	0	0		[Hormonal contraception and vascular risk: CNGOF Contraception Guidelines].	Venous thromboembolism and arterial ischemic events are the main deleterious diseases associated with the use of combined hormonal contraceptives (CHC). Even though their composition has been substantially improved, the vascular risk persists with the most recent CHCs use. If the vascular risk associated with CHCs containing 50mug EE is significantly higher than with those containing less than 50mug, there is no evidence that the CHCs containing either 30 or 20mug of EE induce different venous risks. CHC containing gestodene, desogestrel, drospirenone or cyproterone acetate are associated with a higher risk of venous thrombosis compared with levonorgestrel-containing CHCs. CHC containing norgestimate are associated with similar venous thrombosis risk than CHC containing levonorgestrel. Venous thrombosis risk of non-oral routes of administration of CHC appears to be equivalent to the risk of CHC containing gestodene or desogestrel, but this result is based on a small number of epidemiological studies. Before prescribing a CHC, it is important to determine all vascular risk factors. Family history of ischemic arterial event or venous thromboembolism disease should be routinely sought before any CHC prescription. All CHCs are contraindicated in women with biological thrombophilia, in women with combined vascular risk factors, in women with first-degree family history of arterial or venous event (under age 50) as well as in women suffering of migraine with aura. Progestin-only contraceptives are not associated with vascular risk (arterial or venous) outside of medroxyprogesterone acetate. In women with higher vascular risk, progestin-only contraceptives (administered by oral, sous-cutaneous or intra-uterine routes) can be prescribed.
30389542	Desogestrel	Vascular Diseases	0	1	0	0		[Hormonal contraception and vascular risk: CNGOF Contraception Guidelines].	Venous thromboembolism and arterial ischemic events are the main deleterious diseases associated with the use of combined hormonal contraceptives (CHC). Even though their composition has been substantially improved, the vascular risk persists with the most recent CHCs use. If the vascular risk associated with CHCs containing 50mug EE is significantly higher than with those containing less than 50mug, there is no evidence that the CHCs containing either 30 or 20mug of EE induce different venous risks. CHC containing gestodene, desogestrel, drospirenone or cyproterone acetate are associated with a higher risk of venous thrombosis compared with levonorgestrel-containing CHCs. CHC containing norgestimate are associated with similar venous thrombosis risk than CHC containing levonorgestrel. Venous thrombosis risk of non-oral routes of administration of CHC appears to be equivalent to the risk of CHC containing gestodene or desogestrel, but this result is based on a small number of epidemiological studies. Before prescribing a CHC, it is important to determine all vascular risk factors. Family history of ischemic arterial event or venous thromboembolism disease should be routinely sought before any CHC prescription. All CHCs are contraindicated in women with biological thrombophilia, in women with combined vascular risk factors, in women with first-degree family history of arterial or venous event (under age 50) as well as in women suffering of migraine with aura. Progestin-only contraceptives are not associated with vascular risk (arterial or venous) outside of medroxyprogesterone acetate. In women with higher vascular risk, progestin-only contraceptives (administered by oral, sous-cutaneous or intra-uterine routes) can be prescribed.
30145772	Cobicistat	Renal Insufficiency	1	0	1	1	1.0	Overdose of elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide in an HIV-1-infected subject with attempted suicide.	INTRODUCTION: Data are lacking regarding overdose of Elvitegravir/Cobicistat/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Alafenamide (E/C/F/TAF). MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present the first report of suicidal attempt with E/C/F/TAF in a Human Immunodeficiency Virus-infected subject. RESULTS: A reversible acute renal failure with no proximal tubulopathy and neuropsychiatric issues are discussed. E/C/F/TAF withdrawal resulted in favourable renal and neuropsychiatric outcomes. The suicide attempt seemed unrelated to the integrase strand transfer inhibitor, being evenly explained within the context of stressful personal conflicts. CONCLUSION: A suicidal attempt with an E/C/F/TAF overdose in an HIV-infected patient, resulted in a favourable outcome from a renal and neuropsychiatric standpoint.
30044254	Dabigatran	Hematuria	0	1	0	0		Role of Hypertension and Other Clinical Variables in Prognostication of Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department With Major Bleeding Events.	BACKGROUND: Clinical variables including hypertension could be linked with major bleeding events and death beyond vitamin K antagonist (warfarin) or direct oral anti-coagulants (DOACs) treatment strategy. METHODS: Subgroup analysis of major bleeding (primary endpoint) associated with clinical variables, site of bleeding, ongoing antithrombotics, reversal treatment or blood transfusion, outcomes (secondary endpoints) was performed in patients with bleeding events submitted to hard 5:1 propensity-score matching for hypertension. RESULTS: Enrolled patients were 2,792 (mean age, 65.6 +/- 19.9 years) during 2-year survey including 166,000 visits, of 200,000 inhabitants catchment area; 8,239 patients received warfarin and 3,797 DOACs. Hypertension account for 1,077 (39%) patients; major bleeding for 474 (17%); death for 29 (1%), and 72 (3%) on 1-month and 1-year, respectively. Hypertension, age, glucose, cancer, ischemic vascular disease, and CHA2D2VASc score were more likely to link with major bleeding. On multivariate analysis, only age (odds ratio [OR], 1.02; P < 0.001), CHA2DS2VASc score >/= 2 (OR, 2.14; P = 0.001), and glucose (OR, 1.01; P = 0.005) were predictors of major bleeding. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated patients with hypertension as compared with patients without showed 60% versus 20% death on 1-month (P < 0.001). Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding (0.7% versus 0.2%; OR, 2.8; P = 0.005). Receiver operator characteristics analysis showed high value (0.61) of age and glucose over creatinine and systolic arterial pressure (P = NS). CONCLUSIONS: Four in 10 patients with major bleeding showed hypertension; of these 8 in 10 will die within 1 month. Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding.
30044254	Dabigatran	Hemoptysis	0	1	0	0		Role of Hypertension and Other Clinical Variables in Prognostication of Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department With Major Bleeding Events.	BACKGROUND: Clinical variables including hypertension could be linked with major bleeding events and death beyond vitamin K antagonist (warfarin) or direct oral anti-coagulants (DOACs) treatment strategy. METHODS: Subgroup analysis of major bleeding (primary endpoint) associated with clinical variables, site of bleeding, ongoing antithrombotics, reversal treatment or blood transfusion, outcomes (secondary endpoints) was performed in patients with bleeding events submitted to hard 5:1 propensity-score matching for hypertension. RESULTS: Enrolled patients were 2,792 (mean age, 65.6 +/- 19.9 years) during 2-year survey including 166,000 visits, of 200,000 inhabitants catchment area; 8,239 patients received warfarin and 3,797 DOACs. Hypertension account for 1,077 (39%) patients; major bleeding for 474 (17%); death for 29 (1%), and 72 (3%) on 1-month and 1-year, respectively. Hypertension, age, glucose, cancer, ischemic vascular disease, and CHA2D2VASc score were more likely to link with major bleeding. On multivariate analysis, only age (odds ratio [OR], 1.02; P < 0.001), CHA2DS2VASc score >/= 2 (OR, 2.14; P = 0.001), and glucose (OR, 1.01; P = 0.005) were predictors of major bleeding. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated patients with hypertension as compared with patients without showed 60% versus 20% death on 1-month (P < 0.001). Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding (0.7% versus 0.2%; OR, 2.8; P = 0.005). Receiver operator characteristics analysis showed high value (0.61) of age and glucose over creatinine and systolic arterial pressure (P = NS). CONCLUSIONS: Four in 10 patients with major bleeding showed hypertension; of these 8 in 10 will die within 1 month. Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding.
30044254	Rivaroxaban	Hematuria	0	1	0	0		Role of Hypertension and Other Clinical Variables in Prognostication of Patients Presenting to the Emergency Department With Major Bleeding Events.	BACKGROUND: Clinical variables including hypertension could be linked with major bleeding events and death beyond vitamin K antagonist (warfarin) or direct oral anti-coagulants (DOACs) treatment strategy. METHODS: Subgroup analysis of major bleeding (primary endpoint) associated with clinical variables, site of bleeding, ongoing antithrombotics, reversal treatment or blood transfusion, outcomes (secondary endpoints) was performed in patients with bleeding events submitted to hard 5:1 propensity-score matching for hypertension. RESULTS: Enrolled patients were 2,792 (mean age, 65.6 +/- 19.9 years) during 2-year survey including 166,000 visits, of 200,000 inhabitants catchment area; 8,239 patients received warfarin and 3,797 DOACs. Hypertension account for 1,077 (39%) patients; major bleeding for 474 (17%); death for 29 (1%), and 72 (3%) on 1-month and 1-year, respectively. Hypertension, age, glucose, cancer, ischemic vascular disease, and CHA2D2VASc score were more likely to link with major bleeding. On multivariate analysis, only age (odds ratio [OR], 1.02; P < 0.001), CHA2DS2VASc score >/= 2 (OR, 2.14; P = 0.001), and glucose (OR, 1.01; P = 0.005) were predictors of major bleeding. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated patients with hypertension as compared with patients without showed 60% versus 20% death on 1-month (P < 0.001). Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding (0.7% versus 0.2%; OR, 2.8; P = 0.005). Receiver operator characteristics analysis showed high value (0.61) of age and glucose over creatinine and systolic arterial pressure (P = NS). CONCLUSIONS: Four in 10 patients with major bleeding showed hypertension; of these 8 in 10 will die within 1 month. Warfarin compared with DOACs was more likely to present with major bleeding.
29910082	Brimonidine Tartrate	Conjunctivitis, Allergic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypertensive acute granulomatous anterior uveitis as a side effect of topical brimonidine.	CLINICAL CASE: The case concerns an 81-year-old woman on treatment with a topical fixed combination of timolol and brimonidine who was diagnosed in the Emergency Department with acute anterior granulomatous hypertensive uveitis. The patient responded favourably to the withdrawal of the eye drops without showing any subsequent relapse. DISCUSSION: Uveitis due to brimonidine is a rare adverse effect, but it must be known. Once the diagnosis is suspected, the effective treatment is the withdrawal of brimonidine, with or without the addition of topical corticosteroids to control inflammation depending on the severity of the condition. It is a process with an excellent prognosis.
29910082	Brimonidine Tartrate	Granuloma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypertensive acute granulomatous anterior uveitis as a side effect of topical brimonidine.	CLINICAL CASE: The case concerns an 81-year-old woman on treatment with a topical fixed combination of timolol and brimonidine who was diagnosed in the Emergency Department with acute anterior granulomatous hypertensive uveitis. The patient responded favourably to the withdrawal of the eye drops without showing any subsequent relapse. DISCUSSION: Uveitis due to brimonidine is a rare adverse effect, but it must be known. Once the diagnosis is suspected, the effective treatment is the withdrawal of brimonidine, with or without the addition of topical corticosteroids to control inflammation depending on the severity of the condition. It is a process with an excellent prognosis.
29910082	Brimonidine Tartrate	Ocular Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypertensive acute granulomatous anterior uveitis as a side effect of topical brimonidine.	CLINICAL CASE: The case concerns an 81-year-old woman on treatment with a topical fixed combination of timolol and brimonidine who was diagnosed in the Emergency Department with acute anterior granulomatous hypertensive uveitis. The patient responded favourably to the withdrawal of the eye drops without showing any subsequent relapse. DISCUSSION: Uveitis due to brimonidine is a rare adverse effect, but it must be known. Once the diagnosis is suspected, the effective treatment is the withdrawal of brimonidine, with or without the addition of topical corticosteroids to control inflammation depending on the severity of the condition. It is a process with an excellent prognosis.
29323545	Oxaliplatin	Focal Nodular Hyperplasia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Focal Nodular Hyperplasia After Treatment With Oxaliplatin: A Multiinstitutional Series of Cases Diagnosed at MRI.	OBJECTIVE: Benign hepatic lesions may occur after chemotherapy treatment and may mimic metastases at imaging. We describe focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) lesions diagnosed at MRI that occurred de novo after treatment with oxaliplatin. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a multiinstitutional case series. We report 14 adult patients with cancer (eight men and six women) with a history of treatment with oxaliplatin and development of new hepatic lesions diagnosed as FNH at pathologic analysis or MRI or both. Imaging and pathology features of the included lesions, the interval since chemotherapy, and the temporal evolution were reviewed. RESULTS: The mean interval between the completion of oxaliplatin treatment and the identification of new hepatic FNH at imaging was 47.6 months. In seven of 14 (50%) patients, the index lesion was diagnosed at pathologic analysis (biopsy or resection) as FNH. In the remaining seven cases, the diagnosis was based on highly accurate MRI features (e.g., hyper- or isointensity of the lesion on hepatobiliary phase images). Lesion growth or occurrence of new lesions was present in 75% of patients at imaging follow-up. CONCLUSION: FNH lesions can occur de novo after treatment with oxaliplatin. Recognizing the typical MRI appearance of these lesions may avoid unnecessary biopsy or surgery and reduce patients' anxiety.
29121294	Remifentanil	Hyperalgesia	0	1	0	0		Low-dose buprenorphine infusion to prevent postoperative hyperalgesia in patients undergoing major lung surgery and remifentanil infusion: a double-blind, randomized, active-controlled trial.	BACKGROUND: Postoperative secondary hyperalgesia arises from central sensitization due to pain pathways facilitation and/or acute opioid exposure. The latter is also known as opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH). Remifentanil, a potent mu-opioid agonist, reportedly induces postoperative hyperalgesia and increases postoperative pain scores and opioid consumption. The pathophysiology underlying secondary hyperalgesia involves N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated pain pathways. In this study, we investigated whether perioperatively infusing low-dose buprenorphine, an opioid with anti-NMDA activity, in patients receiving remifentanil infusion prevents postoperative secondary hyperalgesia. METHODS: Sixty-four patients, undergoing remifentanil infusion during general anaesthesia and major lung surgery, were randomly assigned to receive either buprenorphine i.v. infusion (25 mug h-1 for 24 h) or morphine (equianalgesic dose) perioperatively. The presence and extent of punctuate hyperalgesia were assessed one day postoperatively. Secondary outcome variables included postoperative pain scores, opioid consumption and postoperative neuropathic pain assessed one and three months postoperatively. RESULTS: A distinct area of hyperalgesia or allodynia around the surgical incision was found in more patients in the control group than in the treated group. Mean time from extubation to first morphine rescue dose was twice as long in the buprenorphine-treated group than in the morphine-treated group: 18 vs 9 min (P=0.002). At 30 min postoperatively, patients receiving morphine had a higher hazard ratio for the first analgesic rescue dose than those treated with buprenorphine (P=0.009). At three months, no differences between groups were noted. CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose buprenorphine infusion prevents the development of secondary hyperalgesia around the surgical incision but shows no long-term efficacy at three months follow-up.
28763316	Rocuronium	Delayed Emergence from Anesthesia	0	0	0	0		Effects of calcium chloride coadministered with neostigmine on neuromuscular blockade recovery: A double-blind randomised study.	BACKGROUND: Ionised calcium plays an important role in neuromuscular transmission, but its effects on the reversal of nondepolarising neuromuscular blockade have not been fully evaluated. OBJECTIVE: We examined whether calcium chloride coadministered with neostigmine could enhance the rate of neuromuscular recovery. DESIGN: Randomised double-blind trial. SETTING: A tertiary teaching hospital. PATIENTS: In total, 53 patients undergoing elective surgery under general anaesthesia with neuromuscular monitoring by acceleromyography using a TOF-Watch SX monitor. INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly allocated to receive either 5 mg kg of calcium chloride (calcium group, n = 26) or the same volume of normal saline (control group, n = 27) coadministered with 25 mug kg of neostigmine and 15 mug kg of atropine at the end of surgery. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end point was the neuromuscular recovery time [time from neostigmine administration to recovery of the TOF ratio (TOFr) to 0.9]. Secondary end points included the TOFr at 5, 10 and 20 min after neostigmine administration and the incidence of postoperative residual curarisation (PORC), defined as a TOFr less than 0.9 at each time point. RESULTS: The neuromuscular recovery time was significantly faster in the calcium group than in the control group (median [Q1 to Q3]; 5.0 [3.0 to 7.0] vs. 6.7 [5.7 to 10.0] min, respectively; P = 0.007). At 5 min after neostigmine administration, the TOFr was higher [87 (74 to 100) vs. 68 (51 to 81)%, respectively; P = 0.002] and the incidence of PORC was lower (50.0 vs. 81.5%, respectively; P = 0.016) in the calcium group than in the control group. There were no differences between the two groups with respect to the TOFr or incidence of PORC at 10 and 20 min after neostigmine administration. CONCLUSION: Calcium chloride coadministered with neostigmine enhanced neuromuscular recovery in the early period of nondepolarising neuromuscular blockade reversal.
30850157	Valine	Respiratory Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	A case of 5F-ADB / FUB-AMB abuse: Drug-induced or drug-related death?	"Synthetic cannabinoids (SCs) belong to the group of new psychoactive substances (NPS) which appear sprayed on herbal mixtures on the ""street"" drug market and are intended for smoking like marijuana. In the present report we discuss a fatal case of 18-years-old boy, who had smoked SCs since several months and an overuse of SCs during last 48 h of his life has been apprised. The autopsy findings revealed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Both toxicological analysis of deceased blood and urine samples and chemical analysis of the herbal mixture seized revealed presence of two SCs - 5F-ADB and FUB-AMB. The amount of 5F-ADB in blood was found to be 3.7 ng/mL by standard addition method. Severe and irreversible morphology changes in lung specimen, leading to ischemic damage of all internal organs and tissues, were observed during histological examination. The present case can be discussed as an example of both drug-induced and drug-related death resulting from acute intoxication with 5F-ADB and FUB-AMB as well as from systematic use of both synthetic cannabinoids."
29029049	Remifentanil	Pain, Postoperative	0	1	0	0		Intraoperative naloxone reduces remifentanil-induced postoperative hyperalgesia but not pain: a randomized controlled trial.	BACKGROUND: Intraoperative use of a high-dose remifentanil may induce postoperative hyperalgesia. Low-dose naloxone can selectively reverse some adverse effects of opioids without compromising analgesia. We thus hypothesized that the intraoperative use of a high-dose remifentanil combined with a low-dose naloxone infusion reduces postoperative hyperalgesia compared with the use of remifentanil alone. METHODS: Patients undergoing elective thyroid surgery were randomly assigned into one of three groups, depending on the intraoperative effect-site concentration of remifentanil, with or without a continuous infusion of naloxone: 4 ng ml-1 remifentanil with 0.05 mug kg-1 h-1 naloxone in the high-remifentanil with naloxone group, and 4 or 1 ng ml-1 remifentanil with a placebo in the high- or low-remifentanil groups, respectively. We measured the pain thresholds (primary outcome) to mechanical stimuli using von Frey filaments and incidence of hyperalgesia on the peri-incisional area 24 h after surgery. We also measured pain intensity, analgesic consumptions and adverse events up to 48 h after surgery. RESULTS: The pain threshold presented as von Frey numbers [median (interquartile range)] was significantly lower in the high-remifentanil group (n=31) than in the high-remifentanil with naloxone (n=30) and the low-remifentanil (n=30) groups [3.63 (3.22-3.84) vs 3.84 (3.76-4.00) vs 3.80 (3.69-4.08), P=0.011]. The incidence of hyperalgesia was also higher in the high-remifentanil group than in the other groups [21/31 vs 10/30 vs 9/30, P=0.005]. Postoperative pain intensity, analgesic consumptions and adverse events were similar between groups. CONCLUSIONS: The intraoperative use of low-dose naloxone combined with high-dose remifentanil reduced postoperative hyperalgesia but not pain. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02856087.
28716234	Fingolimod Hydrochloride	Demyelinating Diseases	1	0	0	0		Re-emergence of a tumefactive demyelinating lesion after initiation of fingolimod therapy.	
30971393	Finasteride	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus in men receiving steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitors: population based cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the incidence of new onset type 2 diabetes mellitus in men receiving steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitors (dutasteride or finasteride) for long term treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. DESIGN: Population based cohort study. SETTING: UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD; 2003-14) and Taiwanese National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD; 2002-12). PARTICIPANTS: Men in the CPRD who received dutasteride (n=8231), finasteride (n=30 774), or tamsulosin (n=16 270) were evaluated. Propensity score matching (2:1; dutasteride to finasteride or tamsulosin) produced cohorts of 2090, 3445, and 4018, respectively. In the NHIRD, initial numbers were 1251 (dutasteride), 4194 (finasteride), and 86 263 (tamsulosin), reducing to 1251, 2445, and 2502, respectively, after propensity score matching. MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURE: Incident type 2 diabetes using a Cox proportional hazard model. RESULTS: In the CPRD, 2081 new onset type 2 diabetes events (368 dutasteride, 1207 finasteride, and 506 tamsulosin) were recorded during a mean follow-up time of 5.2 years (SD 3.1 years). The event rate per 10 000 person years was 76.2 (95% confidence interval 68.4 to 84.0) for dutasteride, 76.6 (72.3 to 80.9) for finasteride, and 60.3 (55.1 to 65.5) for tamsulosin. There was a modest increased risk of type 2 diabetes for dutasteride (adjusted hazard ratio 1.32, 95% confidence interval 1.08 to 1.61) and finasteride (1.26, 1.10 to 1.45) compared with tamsulosin. Results for the NHIRD were consistent with the findings for the CPRD (adjusted hazard ratio 1.34, 95% confidence interval 1.17 to 1.54 for dutasteride, and 1.49, 1.38 to 1.61 for finasteride compared with tamsulosin). Propensity score matched analyses showed similar results. CONCLUSIONS: The risk of developing new onset type 2 diabetes appears to be higher in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia exposed to 5alpha-reductase inhibitors than in men receiving tamsulosin, but did not differ between men receiving dutasteride and those receiving finasteride. Additional monitoring might be required for men starting these drugs, particularly in those with other risk factors for type 2 diabetes.
30971393	Tamsulosin	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus in men receiving steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitors: population based cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the incidence of new onset type 2 diabetes mellitus in men receiving steroid 5alpha-reductase inhibitors (dutasteride or finasteride) for long term treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. DESIGN: Population based cohort study. SETTING: UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD; 2003-14) and Taiwanese National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD; 2002-12). PARTICIPANTS: Men in the CPRD who received dutasteride (n=8231), finasteride (n=30 774), or tamsulosin (n=16 270) were evaluated. Propensity score matching (2:1; dutasteride to finasteride or tamsulosin) produced cohorts of 2090, 3445, and 4018, respectively. In the NHIRD, initial numbers were 1251 (dutasteride), 4194 (finasteride), and 86 263 (tamsulosin), reducing to 1251, 2445, and 2502, respectively, after propensity score matching. MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURE: Incident type 2 diabetes using a Cox proportional hazard model. RESULTS: In the CPRD, 2081 new onset type 2 diabetes events (368 dutasteride, 1207 finasteride, and 506 tamsulosin) were recorded during a mean follow-up time of 5.2 years (SD 3.1 years). The event rate per 10 000 person years was 76.2 (95% confidence interval 68.4 to 84.0) for dutasteride, 76.6 (72.3 to 80.9) for finasteride, and 60.3 (55.1 to 65.5) for tamsulosin. There was a modest increased risk of type 2 diabetes for dutasteride (adjusted hazard ratio 1.32, 95% confidence interval 1.08 to 1.61) and finasteride (1.26, 1.10 to 1.45) compared with tamsulosin. Results for the NHIRD were consistent with the findings for the CPRD (adjusted hazard ratio 1.34, 95% confidence interval 1.17 to 1.54 for dutasteride, and 1.49, 1.38 to 1.61 for finasteride compared with tamsulosin). Propensity score matched analyses showed similar results. CONCLUSIONS: The risk of developing new onset type 2 diabetes appears to be higher in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia exposed to 5alpha-reductase inhibitors than in men receiving tamsulosin, but did not differ between men receiving dutasteride and those receiving finasteride. Additional monitoring might be required for men starting these drugs, particularly in those with other risk factors for type 2 diabetes.
29275962	Moxifloxacin	Delirium	1	1	0	0	0.0	Fluoroquinolone-Related Neuropsychiatric Events in Hospitalized Veterans.	OBJECTIVE: To measure the incidence and risk factors for fluoroquinolone (ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, and levofloxacin)-associated psychosis or delirium in a veteran population. METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted in the Western New York Veterans Affairs Health System (2005-2013). Participants were hospitalized veterans receiving a fluoroquinolone for at least 48 hours (n = 631). Cases of delirium or psychosis were defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV criteria, and the Naranjo scale (score >/= 1) was used to determine the probability of the adverse drug reaction being related to fluoroquinolones. A bivariate analysis of covariates followed by a multivariate logistic regression was used to determine predisposing factors to the development of delirium/psychosis. RESULTS: The mean age of the population was 71.5 years (range: 22-95). Fluoroquinolone-associated delirium/psychosis occurred in 3.7% of the inpatients studied (n = 23). The median Naranjo score was 3 indicating a possible association. Psychosis/delirium occurred in 3.6% of ciprofloxacin-treated patients (n = 14/391), 4.5% of patients-treated with moxifloxacin (n = 9/200), and 0% of those receiving levofloxacin (n = 0/40); p = 0.4. Significant risk factors for development of delirium/psychosis in patients receiving a fluoroquinolone in the multivariate logistical regression included typical antipsychotic use (OR, 5.4; 95% CI: 1.4-16.7) and age. A 10-year increase in age was associated with a 1.8-fold greater odds of a neuropsychiatric event. CONCLUSIONS: Fluoroquinolones may be more commonly associated with delirium/psychosis than originally reported in this veteran population. Caution should be used when prescribing a fluoroquinolone for patients on typical antipsychotics and those of advanced age.
30052234	Atropine	Ventricular Premature Complexes	1	0	0	0		Sustained ventricular arrhythmias in an asymptomatic child posted for laparoscopic rectopexy: An anesthetist's dilemma?	
29771164	Ascorbic Acid	Fatigue	0	0	0	0		Retrospective Evaluation of Clinical Experience With Intravenous Ascorbic Acid in Patients With Cancer.	BACKGROUND: Intravenous ascorbic acid (IV AA) has been used extensively in cancer patients throughout the United States. Currently, there are limited data on the safety and clinical effects of IV AA. The purpose of this study was to expand the current literature using a retrospective analysis of adverse events and symptomatic changes of IV AA in a large sample of cancer patients. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective chart review of all patients receiving IV AA for cancer at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital over a 7-year period. We assessed all reports of adverse events, laboratory findings, and hospital or emergency department admissions. We also reviewed quality-of-life data, including fatigue, nausea, pain, appetite, and mood. RESULTS: There were 86 patients who received a total of 3034 doses of IV AA ranging from 50 to 150g. In all, 32 patients received only ascorbic acid as part of their cancer management (1197 doses), whereas 54 patients received ascorbic acid in conjunction with chemotherapy (1837 doses). The most common adverse events related to ascorbic acid were temporary nausea and discomfort at the injection site. All events reported in the ascorbic acid alone group were associated with less than 3% of the total number of infusions. Patients, overall, reported improvements in fatigue, pain, and mood while receiving ascorbic acid. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this retrospective analysis support the growing evidence that IV AA is generally safe and well tolerated in patients with cancer, and may be useful in symptom management and improving quality of life.
29277196	Ketamine	Long Term Adverse Effects	0	0	0	0		Can we confidently use ketamine as a clinical treatment for depression?	
30857610	Sevoflurane	Postoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Hepatotoxicity after sevoflurane anaesthesia: a new twist to an old story.	
30791474	Oxaliplatin	Hyperalgesia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Phytochemicals of Cinnamomi Cortex: Cinnamic Acid, but not Cinnamaldehyde, Attenuates Oxaliplatin-Induced Cold and Mechanical Hypersensitivity in Rats.	A chemotherapy drug, oxaliplatin, induces cold and mechanical hypersensitivity, but effective treatments for this neuropathic pain without side effects are still lacking. We previously showed that Cinnamomi Cortex suppresses oxaliplatin-induced pain behaviors in rats. However, it remains unknown which phytochemical of Cinnamomi Cortex plays a key role in that analgesic action. Thus, here we investigated whether and how cinnamic acid or cinnamaldehyde, major components of Cinnamomi Cortex, alleviates cold and mechanical allodynia induced by a single oxaliplatin injection (6 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats. Using an acetone test and the von Frey test for measuring cold and mechanical allodynia, respectively, we found that administration of cinnamic acid, but not cinnamaldehyde, at doses of 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg (i.p.) significantly attenuates the allodynic behaviors in oxaliplatin-injected rats with the strongest effect being observed at 20 mg/kg. Our in vivo extracellular recordings also showed that cinnamic acid (20 mg/kg, i.p.) inhibits the increased activities of spinal wide dynamic range neurons in response to cutaneous mechanical and cold stimuli following the oxaliplatin injection. These results indicate that cinnamic acid has an effective analgesic action against oxaliplatin-induced neuropathic pain through inhibiting spinal pain transmission, suggesting its crucial role in mediating the effect of Cinnamomi Cortex.
30698346	Iridium	Occupational Diseases	0	0	0	0		Update of occupational lung disease.	OBJECTIVE: Occupational Lung Disease is an oldest but still a biggest problem in occupational health. METHODS: Steering Committee members of the Japan Society for Occupational Health (JSOH) Occupational Lung Disease Study Group selected and summarized current topics on occupational lung diseases based on expert opinion, as informed by governmental regulation, public health concerns, and frequently discussed in related academic conferences. RESULTS: The topics included in this review are professional education in medical screening skills, 2014 update of Helsinki Criteria, respiratory diseases found in the earthquake and tsunami affected regions, newly recognized occupational lung diseases, and potential respiratory health hazards. DISCUSSIONS: Although occupational lung diseases seem to stay as one of the major concerns in occupational health, screening tools and control measures are standardized for the better prevention of the diseases. As this health problem usually occurs in where the most actively economically developing area is, the patients tend to increase in emerging economic powers with huge population.
30521826	Isotretinoin	Dyslipidemias	0	0	0	0			
30340938	Filgrastim	Thrombocytopenia	1	0	0	0		Severe thrombocytopenia related to filgrastim mobilization in a healthy donor.	
30278221	Carboplatin	Intestinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	PARP inhibition in platinum-based chemotherapy: Chemopotentiation and neuroprotection.	Cisplatin, carboplatin and oxaliplatin represent the backbone of platinum therapy for several malignancies including head and neck, lung, colorectal, ovarian, breast, and genitourinary cancer. However, the efficacy of platinum-based drugs is often compromised by a plethora of severe toxicities including sensory and enteric neuropathy. Acute and chronic neurotoxicity following platinum chemotherapy is a major constraint, contributing to dose-reductions, treatment delays, and cessation of treatment. Identifying drugs that effectively prevent these toxic complications is imperative to improve the efficacy of anti-cancer treatment and patient quality of life. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been highlighted as key players in the pathophysiology of platinum chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), a nuclear enzyme activated upon DNA damage, has demonstrated substantial sensory and enteric neuroprotective capacity when administered in combination with platinum chemotherapeutics. Furthermore, administration of PARP inhibitors alongside platinum chemotherapy has been found to significantly improve progression-free survival in patients with breast and ovarian cancer when compared to those receiving chemotherapy alone. This review summarises the current knowledge surrounding mitochondrial damage and oxidative stress in platinum chemotherapy-induced neuropathy and highlights a potential role for PARP in chemopotentiation and neuroprotection.
30278221	Oxaliplatin	Intestinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	PARP inhibition in platinum-based chemotherapy: Chemopotentiation and neuroprotection.	Cisplatin, carboplatin and oxaliplatin represent the backbone of platinum therapy for several malignancies including head and neck, lung, colorectal, ovarian, breast, and genitourinary cancer. However, the efficacy of platinum-based drugs is often compromised by a plethora of severe toxicities including sensory and enteric neuropathy. Acute and chronic neurotoxicity following platinum chemotherapy is a major constraint, contributing to dose-reductions, treatment delays, and cessation of treatment. Identifying drugs that effectively prevent these toxic complications is imperative to improve the efficacy of anti-cancer treatment and patient quality of life. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been highlighted as key players in the pathophysiology of platinum chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), a nuclear enzyme activated upon DNA damage, has demonstrated substantial sensory and enteric neuroprotective capacity when administered in combination with platinum chemotherapeutics. Furthermore, administration of PARP inhibitors alongside platinum chemotherapy has been found to significantly improve progression-free survival in patients with breast and ovarian cancer when compared to those receiving chemotherapy alone. This review summarises the current knowledge surrounding mitochondrial damage and oxidative stress in platinum chemotherapy-induced neuropathy and highlights a potential role for PARP in chemopotentiation and neuroprotection.
30143911	Cobalt	Ventricular Dysfunction, Left	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe Cardiomyopathy Due to Arthroprosthetic Cobaltism: Report of Two Cases with Different Outcomes.	Cobalt-induced cardiomyopathy is a well-known but uncommon disease, and the physician must maintain a high index of suspicion in order to make a timely diagnosis. We report two patients with cobalt-induced cardiomyopathy. Both patients developed progressively worsening symptoms of cobalt toxicity following revision of a fractured ceramic-on-ceramic total hip replacement to a metal-on-polyethylene bearing. In both patients, echocardiography showed LV hypertrophy, biventricular systolic dysfunction, and a large amount of pericardial effusion. Due to decompensated heart failure, both patients were initially considered candidates for heart transplantation. One patient was diagnosed with cobalt-induced cardiomyopathy before transplantation. He received cobalt chelation therapy and revision surgery, which led to complete recovery of heart function. In the other patient, the diagnosis was not made until the time of heart transplantation. The gross examination of the explanted heart revealed typical features of cobalt cardiotoxicity, which was then diagnosed as cobalt-induced cardiomyopathy. These cases emphasise the importance of early diagnosis and prompt treatment of cobalt intoxication.
30060078	Glycine	Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Glyphosate-based herbicides and cancer risk: a post-IARC decision review of potential mechanisms, policy and avenues of research.	Since its initial sales in the 1970s, the herbicide glyphosate attained widespread use in modern agriculture, becoming the most commercially successful and widely used herbicide of all time as of 2016. Despite a primary mechanism that targets a pathway absent from animal cells and regulatory studies showing safety margins orders of magnitude better than many other, more directly toxic herbicides, the safety status of glyphosate has recently been brought into question by a slow accumulation of studies suggesting more subtle health risks, especially when considered in combination with the surfactants it is usually applied with. Current, official views of respected international regulatory and health bodies remain divided on glyphosate's status as a human carcinogen, but the 2015 International Agency for Research on Cancer decision to reclassify the compound as Category 2A (probably carcinogenic to humans) marked a sea change in the scientific community's consensus view. The goal of this review is to consider the state of science regarding glyphosate's potential as a human carcinogen and genotoxin, with particular focus on studies suggesting mechanisms that would go largely undetected in traditional toxicology studies, such as microbiome disruption and endocrine mimicry at very low concentrations.
30029601	Crizotinib	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	1	0	0	1.0	Fatal interstitial lung disease associated with Crizotinib pathologically confirmed by percutaneous lung biopsy in a patient with ROS1-rearranged advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Crizotinib is a multi-target inhibitor approved for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients with a ROS1 rearrangement. However, interstitial lung disease is a rare but severe and fatal side effect of crizotinib that should lead to immediate discontinuation of the drug. Unfortunately, the pathophysiology, molecular mechanism and risk factors for crizotinib-induced interstitial lung disease remain poorly understood. CASE PRESENTATION: We first identified and reported interstitial lung disease induced de novo by crizotinib in a 47-year-old female patient who was diagnosed with advanced lung adenocarcinoma with a ROS1 rearrangement in a malignant pleural effusion. Subsequent next-generation sequencing analysis revealed both ROS1 rearrangement and an EGFR exon 19 deletion mutation in lung biopsy specimens, which were histologically confirmed to be interstitial lung disease. Although crizotinib treatment was ceased immediately and a shock treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone as well as other necessary treatment procedures was applied to reverse the interstitial lung disease process, the patient died. CONCLUSIONS: The present case indicates that while treating non-small-cell lung cancer patients with crizotinib, it is important to constantly monitor any newly emerging respiratory symptoms and unexplained imaging changes, which may suggest an adverse effect related to drug-induced interstitial lung disease or even lethality. Histopathology and molecular pathological examination of lung biopsy specimens may help clinicians understand the development mechanism and exclude other causes.
29965880	Nivolumab	Inflammation	1	1	1	1	1.0	Nivolumab induced inflammation of seborrheic keratoses: a novel cutaneous manifestation in a metastatic melanoma patient.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting the programmed cell death (PD)-1 receptor have dramatically changed the landscape of metastatic melanoma treatment. Nevertheless, these immuno-modulatory agents have associated side effects, including dermatologic manifestations. To this end, we report a patient with metastatic melanoma that was treated with a PD-1 inhibitor, and subsequently developed inflammation of existing seborrheic keratosis lesions and new verrucous keratoses, a cutaneous side effect that has not been previously reported to our knowledge. The etiology of seborrheic and verrucous keratoses is not well understood, although their physical and histopathologic similarities to chronic viral-derived lesions, such as human papilloma virus, suggest a potential viral association. Chronic viral infections are known to result in T-cell tolerance because of persistent antigen stimulation. PD-1 inhibition is able to reinvigorate exhausted T cells, which are accordingly able to decrease viral load. Thus, the inflammatory reaction, seen in our patient, may be the result of PD-1 inhibition reactivating virally driven T lymphocytes.
28780239	Misoprostol	Back Pain	1	0	0	0		It is just like having a period with back pain: exploring women's experiences with community-based distribution of misoprostol for early abortion on the Thailand-Burma border.	INTRODUCTION: The lack of economic development and longstanding conflict in Burma have led to mass population displacement. Unintended pregnancy and unsafe abortion are common and contribute to maternal death and disability. In 2011, stakeholders operating along the Thailand-Burma border established a community-based distribution program of misoprostol for early abortion, with the aim of providing safe and free abortion care in this low-resource and legally restricted setting. METHODS: We conducted 16 in-depth, in-person interviews with women from Burma residing on both sides of the border who accessed misoprostol through the community-based distribution initiative. We analyzed interviews for content and themes using deductive and inductive methods. RESULTS: Overall, women felt positively about their abortion experiences and the initiative. Previous abortion experiences and the recommendations of others shaped women's access. All participants, including those who remained pregnant after taking the misoprostol, would recommend the initiative to others. CONCLUSION: Community-based distribution of misoprostol is an effective and culturally appropriate method of improving safe abortion care on the Thailand-Burma border. Supporting efforts to expand the harm reduction program to more communities and provide regular reproductive health and safe abortion trainings appears warranted. IMPLICATIONS: In recent years, a number of organizations have launched programs dedicated to misoprostol-alone for early abortion. However, few have documented the experiences and perspectives of women. Our findings indicate providing misoprostol through lay provision in a legally restricted context is not only safe and effective but also culturally resonant.
30746917	Capecitabine	Lacrimal Duct Obstruction	1	0	0	0		Nasolacrimal Duct Stenosis after Oral Capecitabine Administration.	
29173871	Imiquimod	Erythema Multiforme	1	0	0	0		Erythema Multiforme Caused by Treatment With Topical Imiquimod 5% in a Patient With Gorlin Syndrome.	
28807321	Erlotinib Hydrochloride	Staphylococcal Infections	1	0	0	0		Folliculitis Decalvans Caused by Bacterial Superinfection Secondary to Erlotinib.	
28718886	Ticarcillin	Hearing Loss	0	1	0	0		Brainstem auditory evoked responses in 37 dogs with otitis media before and after topical therapy.	OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to determine whether intra-aural administration of aqueous solutions of marbofloxacin, gentamicin, tobramycin and ticarcillin (used off-licence) was associated with changes in hearing as measured by brainstem auditory evoked responses. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Dogs diagnosed with otitis media (n=37) underwent brainstem auditory evoked response testing and then were treated for their ear disease. First, the external ear canal and middle ear were flushed with sterile saline followed by EDTA tris with 0.15% chlorhexidine. Then, a combination of aqueous antibiotic mixed with an aqueous solution of EDTA tris was instilled into the middle ear. Follow-up examinations were undertaken for each dog, and treatment was continued until there were no detected infectious organisms or inflammatory infiltrate. Brainstem auditory evoked response testing was repeated after resolution of the infection and discontinuation of therapy. RESULTS: Brainstem auditory evoked responses in dogs treated with aqueous solutions of marbofloxacin or gentamicin remained unchanged or improved after therapy of otitis media but were impaired in dogs treated with ticarcillin or tobramycin. CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: If off-licence use of topical antibiotics is deemed necessary in cases of otitis media, aqueous solutions of marbofloxacin and gentamicin appear to be less ototoxic than aqueous solutions of ticarcillin or tobramycin.
28654766	Methotrexate	Maxillary Diseases	1	1	0	1	1.0	Methotrexate-Related Lymphoproliferative Disorder in Patients With Osteonecrosis of the Jaw: A 3-Case Report and Literature Review.	Patients with immunodeficiency or immunosuppression are at risk of developing a lymphoproliferative disorder (LPD). Methotrexate (MTX) is an iatrogenic cause of LPD, which in up to 50% cases occurs in extranodal sites. The occurrence of MTX-related LPD with osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has rarely been reported. Moreover, there are no clear diagnostic criteria and treatment strategies for management of these lesions. In the present cases, discontinuing MTX and debridement of the necrotic bone were effective. This report describes 3 cases of MTX-related LPD in patients with longstanding rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who presented with ONJ. The first patient was a 74-year-old man with RA who had received treatment with MTX for 7 years before presenting with ONJ and submental lymphadenopathy. The second patient was a 79-year-old woman who had been treated for 21 years with MTX and who presented with ONJ. The third patient was a 67-year-old man who had been treated with MTX for more than 15 years. In all 3 cases, biopsy, histology, and immunohistochemistry using a panel of lymphoid markers (Epstein-Barr virus [EBV], CD79a, CD20, PAX-5, CD3, and CD30) resulted in the diagnosis of EBV-driven T-cell, B-cell, and Hodgkin-like LPD. All 3 patients recovered after cessation of MTX and surgical debridement. Biopsy examination, diagnostic immunohistochemistry using lymphoid immune markers, and imaging studies using computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron-emission tomographic computed tomography were useful for the correct diagnosis of this condition.
30990550	Lidocaine	Fatigue	1	0	0	0		Effect of Doxepin Mouthwash or Diphenhydramine-Lidocaine-Antacid Mouthwash vs Placebo on Radiotherapy-Related Oral Mucositis Pain: The Alliance A221304 Randomized Clinical Trial.	IMPORTANCE: Oral mucositis causes substantial morbidity during head and neck radiotherapy. In a randomized study, doxepin mouthwash was shown to reduce oral mucositis-related pain. A common mouthwash comprising diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid is also widely used. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of doxepin mouthwash or diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash for the treatment of oral mucositis-related pain. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A phase 3 randomized trial was conducted from November 1, 2014, to May 16, 2016, at 30 US institutions and included 275 patients who underwent definitive head and neck radiotherapy, had an oral mucositis pain score of 4 points or greater (scale, 0-10), and were followed up for a maximum of 28 days. INTERVENTIONS: Ninety-two patients were randomized to doxepin mouthwash (25 mg/5 mL water); 91 patients to diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid; and 92 patients to placebo. MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURES: The primary end point was total oral mucositis pain reduction (defined by the area under the curve and adjusted for baseline pain score) during the 4 hours after a single dose of doxepin mouthwash or diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash compared with a single dose of placebo. The minimal clinically important difference was a 3.5-point change. The secondary end points included drowsiness, unpleasant taste, and stinging or burning. All scales ranged from 0 (best) to 10 (worst). RESULTS: Among the 275 patients randomized (median age, 61 years; 58 [21%] women), 227 (83%) completed treatment per protocol. Mucositis pain during the first 4 hours decreased by 11.6 points in the doxepin mouthwash group, by 11.7 points in the diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash group, and by 8.7 points in the placebo group. The between-group difference was 2.9 points (95% CI, 0.2-6.0; P = .02) for doxepin mouthwash vs placebo and 3.0 points (95% CI, 0.1-5.9; P = .004) for diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash vs placebo. More drowsiness was reported with doxepin mouthwash vs placebo (by 1.5 points [95% CI, 0-4.0]; P = .03), unpleasant taste (by 1.5 points [95% CI, 0-3.0]; P = .002), and stinging or burning (by 4.0 points [95% CI, 2.5-5.0]; P < .001). Maximum grade 3 adverse events for the doxepin mouthwash occurred in 3 patients (4%); diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash, 3 (4%); and placebo, 2 (2%). Fatigue was reported by 5 patients (6%) in the doxepin mouthwash group and no patients in the diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash group. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Among patients undergoing head and neck radiotherapy, the use of doxepin mouthwash or diphenhydramine-lidocaine-antacid mouthwash vs placebo significantly reduced oral mucositis pain during the first 4 hours after administration; however, the effect size was less than the minimal clinically important difference. Further research is needed to assess longer-term efficacy and safety for both mouthwashes. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02229539.
30918156	Nivolumab	Cryptogenic Organizing Pneumonia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Organizing Pneumonia after Nivolumab Treatment in a Patient with Pathologically Proven Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.	Acute exacerbation of pre-existing interstitial lung disease (ILD) associated with systemic anticancer therapy is recognized as a life-threatening adverse event of lung cancer treatment. Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, often induce pneumonitis in patients with cancer; however, the tolerance and safety of nivolumab for advanced lung cancer with ILD are unclear. We report a 72-year-old patient with lung cancer with pathologically proven idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis who was treated with nivolumab. She demonstrated pneumonitis with an organized pneumonia (OP) pattern, but no acute exacerbation of ILD featuring a diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) pattern. She was successfully treated with corticosteroid therapy, and maintained good disease control after the discontinuation of nivolumab. She also showed pseudoprogression of the primary tumor, implying infiltration of T-cells into the lung. These findings suggest that T-cell activation by nivolumab treatment might not be directly associated with acute ILD exacerbation, and that treatable OP might be a major pulmonary complication of nivolumab in patients with pre-existing ILD, similar to patients without underlying ILD.
30918156	Nivolumab	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	1	0	0	0.0	Organizing Pneumonia after Nivolumab Treatment in a Patient with Pathologically Proven Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.	Acute exacerbation of pre-existing interstitial lung disease (ILD) associated with systemic anticancer therapy is recognized as a life-threatening adverse event of lung cancer treatment. Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, often induce pneumonitis in patients with cancer; however, the tolerance and safety of nivolumab for advanced lung cancer with ILD are unclear. We report a 72-year-old patient with lung cancer with pathologically proven idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis who was treated with nivolumab. She demonstrated pneumonitis with an organized pneumonia (OP) pattern, but no acute exacerbation of ILD featuring a diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) pattern. She was successfully treated with corticosteroid therapy, and maintained good disease control after the discontinuation of nivolumab. She also showed pseudoprogression of the primary tumor, implying infiltration of T-cells into the lung. These findings suggest that T-cell activation by nivolumab treatment might not be directly associated with acute ILD exacerbation, and that treatable OP might be a major pulmonary complication of nivolumab in patients with pre-existing ILD, similar to patients without underlying ILD.
30466934	Aluminum	Autistic Disorder	1	0	0	0		Testing new hypotheses of neurological and immunological outcomes with aluminum-containing vaccines is warranted.	
30267637	Bupivacaine	Hyperalgesia	1	1	0	1	1.0	Opioid Induced Hyperalgesia with Intrathecal Infusion of High-Dose Fentanyl.	INTRODUCTION: Despite being reported since 1943 as well as being the subject of a large body of literature since that time, no consensus has been reached regarding the etiology of opioid induced hyperalgesia (OIH). It is often described as a paradoxical increased pain response to noxious stimuli due to increased sensitization or an acute tolerance to opioids. CASE: We report the case of a 60 year old patient on chronic Intrathecal combined fentanyl and Bupivacaine who had worsening pain with increasing doses and improved after weaning off intrathecal opioids. CONCLUSION: OIH has been described in various settings including patients on methadone maintenance therapy, perioperative opioid administration, cancer patients on opioids, and healthy volunteers who are acutely exposed to opioids, including high dose intrathecal opioids such as Morphine and Sufentanil. To our knowledge, no cases of opioid induced hyperalgesia was previously reported in the case of intrathecal Fentanyl.
29357780	Crizotinib	Esophagitis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Crizotinib-induced erosive esophagitis in a pediatric patient with neuroblastoma.	Crizotinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor, approved by the FDA in 2011, for use in anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive, metastatic, non-small cell lung cancer. Crizotinib inhibits oncogenic protein expression and impairs cellular proliferation in tumors with an overexpressed anaplastic lymphoma kinase gene. Currently used most frequently in the adult patient population, pediatric use is becoming more prominent, specifically in disease states exhibiting anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive, metastatic disease, such as neuroblastoma. Approximately 8% of neuroblastomas have activating anaplastic lymphoma kinase-mutations, making this a promising target for a difficult-to-treat disease. Studies in the pediatric population are limited. However, targeted anaplastic lymphoma kinase-inhibitor therapies have shown improved outcomes at both one-year and two-year marks in both overall survival and progression free survival in anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive adult patients with non-small cell lung cancer. One Children's Oncology Group phase I trial examined toxicities associated with anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitor therapy in pediatric patients. Results revealed varying grades in severity of neutropenia, dizziness, and liver function test elevation. In the adult population, severe toxicities reported by the manufacturer include effects on liver, cardiac and lung function. Additionally, several cases of severe, erosive, pill-esophagitis due to crizotinib therapy have been documented in the adult population. Erosive esophagitis is common in the pediatric population due to a variety of factors. Ingestion of medications or other corrosive agents accounts for approximately 3-5% (5000-10,000 cases per year) of esophagitis presentation in the pediatric population. Common causative medications include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics such as doxycycline and tetracycline, and ferrous sulfate. Presented here is the first reported case of crizotinib-induced pill esophagitis in a pediatric patient.
29207935	Dasatinib	Diseases in Twins	1	1	1	1	1.0	Cardiac birth defects in a twin infant born to a woman with chronic myeloid leukemia on dasatinib.	Preclinical animal studies have demonstrated an association between maternal use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors and embryofetal toxicity; yet, multiple clinical case series have reported normal pregnancy outcomes and healthy infants in women on these medications during the course of their pregnancy. We describe a case of a woman with chronic myeloid leukemia who had taken the second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor dasatinib during the first 12 weeks of her dichorionic diamniotic twin pregnancy and subsequently delivered two low-birth weight infants, one with severe cardiac malformations and the other without apparent birth abnormalities. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of fetal cardiovascular defects in an infant born to a woman on dasatinib during a twin pregnancy and supports current recommendations to avoid this medication during pregnancy. We also review relevant preclinical and clinical studies of tyrosine kinase inhibitor use during pregnancy and explore alternative therapeutic options for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia during pregnancy to aid clinicians in the appropriate management of these patients so as to minimize both maternal and fetal risks.
29207935	Dasatinib	Heart Defects, Congenital	1	1	1	1	1.0	Cardiac birth defects in a twin infant born to a woman with chronic myeloid leukemia on dasatinib.	Preclinical animal studies have demonstrated an association between maternal use of tyrosine kinase inhibitors and embryofetal toxicity; yet, multiple clinical case series have reported normal pregnancy outcomes and healthy infants in women on these medications during the course of their pregnancy. We describe a case of a woman with chronic myeloid leukemia who had taken the second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor dasatinib during the first 12 weeks of her dichorionic diamniotic twin pregnancy and subsequently delivered two low-birth weight infants, one with severe cardiac malformations and the other without apparent birth abnormalities. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of fetal cardiovascular defects in an infant born to a woman on dasatinib during a twin pregnancy and supports current recommendations to avoid this medication during pregnancy. We also review relevant preclinical and clinical studies of tyrosine kinase inhibitor use during pregnancy and explore alternative therapeutic options for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia during pregnancy to aid clinicians in the appropriate management of these patients so as to minimize both maternal and fetal risks.
31020002	Botulinum Toxins, Type A	Muscle Spasticity	0	0	0	0		Effect of Tui Na on upper limb spasticity after stroke: a randomized clinical trial.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy and safety of Tui Na for treating spasticity of the upper limbs of stroke patients. DESIGN: A prospective, multicenter, blinded, randomized controlled intervention study. SUBJECTS: Stroke patients with upper limb spasticity who were treated between December 2013 and February 2017 in 16 participating institutions in China were randomly assigned to receive either Tui Na plus conventional rehabilitation (Tui Na group, n = 222,) or conventional rehabilitation only (control group, n = 222). METHODS: Eligible adult patients (aged 18-75 years) were enrolled 1-12 months after stroke and randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to the two groups. Outcome assessors were blinded to treatment allocation. Muscle tone in the spastic muscles was evaluated using the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), and the primary endpoint was the change in MAS score over 4 weeks of treatment. RESULTS: Among patients who had experienced stroke 1-3 months before treatment, the Tui Na group experienced significantly greater reductions in MAS scores for three muscle groups than did the control group after 4 weeks of treatment. These improvements were sustained at the 3- and 6-month follow-ups. However, among patients who suffered from stroke 4-6 months and 7-12 months before treatment, the change in MAS with treatment did not differ significantly between those who did and those who did not receive Tui Na. No Tui Na-related adverse events during treatment were reported the groups. CONCLUSION: Tui Na was effective and safe for alleviating poststroke spasticity within 1-3 months after stroke onset.
30315343	Melphalan	Sweet Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Atypical bortezomib-induced neutrophilic dermatosis.	
29329823	Valganciclovir	Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Atypical presentation of CMV pneumonia in a heart transplant patient.	
28836284	Imatinib Mesylate	Hand Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Imatinib-induced psoriasiform eruption in a patient with chronic myeloid leukemia.	
28836284	Imatinib Mesylate	Skin Diseases, Papulosquamous	1	0	0	0		Imatinib-induced psoriasiform eruption in a patient with chronic myeloid leukemia.	
30465844	Fructose	Dysbiosis	0	0	0	0		Fucosylated chondroitin sulfate from Isostichopus badionotus alleviates metabolic syndromes and gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by high-fat and high-fructose diet.	Fucosylated chondroitin sulfate from Isostichopus badionotus (fCS-Ib) is a kind of sulfated polysaccharides with well-repeated structure. In our former publications, fCS-Ib has been reported to be a functional food ingredient with hypoglycemic and antilipemic activities. However, there is no systematic study to investigate the effects of fCS-Ib on metabolic syndromes. In the present study, C57BL/6 mice fed on a high-fat and high sucrose diet (HFSD) for 6 weeks was used to cause metabolic syndromes. The final results showed that fCS-Ib alleviated obesity, hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, inflammation, liver steatosis, and adipocyte hypertrophy caused by HFSD. Meanwhile, fCS-Ib showed powerful effects on moderating gut microbiota dysbiosis in the HFSD-fed mice. Supplement of fCS-Ib could reduce ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes by decreasing abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Allobaculum while increasing abundance of Porphyromonadaceae, Barnesiella, and Bacteroides. Our results showed that fCS-Ib could be further developed as a potential pharmaceutical agent to prevent metabolic syndromes and gut microbiota dysbiosis.
30465844	Fructose	Hypertrophy	0	0	0	0		Fucosylated chondroitin sulfate from Isostichopus badionotus alleviates metabolic syndromes and gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by high-fat and high-fructose diet.	Fucosylated chondroitin sulfate from Isostichopus badionotus (fCS-Ib) is a kind of sulfated polysaccharides with well-repeated structure. In our former publications, fCS-Ib has been reported to be a functional food ingredient with hypoglycemic and antilipemic activities. However, there is no systematic study to investigate the effects of fCS-Ib on metabolic syndromes. In the present study, C57BL/6 mice fed on a high-fat and high sucrose diet (HFSD) for 6 weeks was used to cause metabolic syndromes. The final results showed that fCS-Ib alleviated obesity, hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, inflammation, liver steatosis, and adipocyte hypertrophy caused by HFSD. Meanwhile, fCS-Ib showed powerful effects on moderating gut microbiota dysbiosis in the HFSD-fed mice. Supplement of fCS-Ib could reduce ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes by decreasing abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Allobaculum while increasing abundance of Porphyromonadaceae, Barnesiella, and Bacteroides. Our results showed that fCS-Ib could be further developed as a potential pharmaceutical agent to prevent metabolic syndromes and gut microbiota dysbiosis.
30071529	Oxycodone	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	1	1	0	0	0.0	Opioids and Cardiac Arrhythmia: A Literature Review.	OBJECTIVE: One of the most important side effects of opioids is their influence on the electrical activity of the heart. This review focusses on the effects of opioids on QT interval prolongation and their arrhythmogenic liability. METHODS: By using various keywords, papers published up to 2018 in different databases were searched and identified. The search terms were opioids names, corrected QT interval, human-ether-a-go-go gene, torsades de pointes (TdP), cardiac arrhythmias, opioid dependence and other relevant terms. It emphasized the effects of each opioid agent alone on electrocardiogram (ECG) and some interactions. RESULTS: Available data indicate that some opioids such as methadone are high-risk even at low doses, and have potential for prolongation of the QT interval and development of TdP, a dangerous ventricular tachycardia. A number of opioids such as tramadol and oxycodone are intermediate risk drugs and may develop long QT interval and TdP in high doses. Some other opioids such as morphine and buprenorphine are low-risk drugs and do not produce QT interval prolongation and TdP at least in routine doses. Opium-consumers are at higher risk of supra-ventricular arrhythmias, sinus bradycardia, cardiac block and atrial fibrillation. CONCLUSION: The cardiac arrhythmogenicity of various opioids is different. Methadone has a higher capability to induce long QT interval and dangerous arrhythmias in conventional doses than others. To reduce of arrhythmogenic risk, high doses of opioids must be used cautiously with periodic monitoring of ECG in high-risk consumers such as patients under opioid maintenance treatment.
29873112	Metformin	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	0	0	0		Association of antidiabetic medication use, cognitive decline, and risk of cognitive impairment in older people with type 2 diabetes: Results from the population-based Mayo Clinic Study of Aging.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between diabetes treatment type and cognitive outcomes among type II diabetics. METHODS: We examined the association between metformin use, as compared to other diabetic treatment (ie, insulin, other oral medications, and diet/exercise) and cognitive test performance and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) diagnosis among 508 cognitively unimpaired at baseline type II diabetics enrolled in the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging. We created propensity scores to adjust for treatment effects. We used multivariate linear and logistic regression models to investigate the cross-sectional association between treatment type and cognitive test z scores, respectively. Mixed effects models and competing risk regression models were used to determine the longitudinal association between treatment type and change in cognitive test z scores and risk of developing incident MCI. RESULTS: In linear regression analyses adjusted for age, sex, education, body mass index, APOE epsilon4, insulin treatment, medical comorbidities, number of medications, duration of diabetes, and propensity score, we did not observe an association between metformin use and cognitive test performance. Additionally, we did not observe an association between metformin use and cognitive test performance over time (median = 3.7-year follow-up). Metformin was associated with an increased risk of MCI (subhazard ratio (SHR) = 2.75; 95% CI = 1.64, 4.63, P < .001). Similarly, other oral medications (SHR = 1.96; 95% CI = 1.19, 3.25; P = .009) and insulin (SHR = 3.17; 95% CI = 1.27, 7.92; P = .014) use were also associated with risk of MCI diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that metformin use, as compared to management of diabetes with other treatments, is not associated with cognitive test performance. However, metformin was associated with incident MCI diagnosis.
28683008	Carbon Monoxide	Urinary Bladder Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yield of UK cigarettes and the risk of non-muscle-invasive and muscle-invasive bladder cancer.	Cigarette smoking is a major risk factor for bladder cancer (BC); however, the impact of cigarette content remains unclear. This study aims to investigate tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide (TNCO) yields of different filtered cigarettes in relation to BC risk. From the Bladder Cancer Prognosis Programme 575 non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) cases, 139 muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) cases and 130 BC-free controls with retrospective data on smoking behaviour and cigarette brand were identified. Independently measured TNCO yields of cigarettes sold in the UK were obtained through the UK Department of Health and merged with the Bladder Cancer Prognosis Programme dataset to estimate the daily intake of TNCO. BC risk increased by TNCO intake category for NMIBC cases (P <0.050 in all multivariate models), but only for the daily intake of tar for MIBC cases (P=0.046) in multivariate models. No difference in risk was observed between smokers of low-tar/low-nicotine and high-tar/high-nicotine cigarettes compared with never smokers, either for NMIBC (P=0.544) or MIBC (P=0.449). High daily intake of TNCO additionally increases the risk of both NMIBC and MIBC compared with low daily intake. However, as there is no difference in BC risk between low-tar/low-nicotine and high-tar/high-nicotine cigarette smokers, it remains unclear whether smoking behaviour or TNCO yield of cigarettes explains this association.
30663796	Alendronate	Cat Diseases	0	0	0	0		Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw after long-term bisphosphonate treatment in a cat.	A 12-year-old, neutered female, domestic medium hair cat was evaluated for a nonhealing, oral mucosal ulceration. The cat had a history of idiopathic hypercalcemia that had been treated with a bisphosphonate for 41 months. Oral examination identified exposed maxillary bone adjacent to a previous extraction site. Histopathology of the exposed bone and associated mucosa was most consistent with medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw. Treatment involved both medical and surgical interventions. Oral mucosal healing occurred after 6 months of treatment.
30510995	Imiquimod	Colitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Toll-Like Receptor 7 Agonist-Induced Dermatitis Causes Severe Dextran Sulfate Sodium Colitis by Altering the Gut Microbiome and Immune Cells.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are both chronic inflammatory diseases occurring in the skin and gut, respectively. It is well established that psoriasis and IBD have high concordance rates, and similar changes in immune cells and microbiome composition have been reported in both conditions. To study this connection, we used a combination murine model of psoriatic dermatitis and colitis in which mice were treated topically with the Toll-like receptor 7 agonist imiquimod (IMQ) and fed dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). METHODS: We applied IMQ topically to B6 mice (IMQ mice) and subsequently fed them 2% DSS in their drinking water. Disease activity and immune cell phenotypes were analyzed, and the microbial composition of fecal samples was investigated using 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing. We transplanted feces from IMQ mice to germ-free IQI/Jic (IQI) mice and fed them DSS to assess the effect of the gut microbiome on disease. RESULTS: We first confirmed that IMQ mice showed accelerated DSS colitis. IMQ mice had decreased numbers of IgD(+) and IgM(+) B cells and increased numbers of non-cytokine-producing macrophages in the gut. Moreover, the gut microbiomes of IMQ mice were perturbed, with significant reductions of Lactobacillus johnsonii and Lactobacillus reuteri populations. Germ-free mice transplanted with feces from IMQ mice, but not with feces from untreated mice, also developed exacerbated DSS colitis. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that skin inflammation may contribute to pathogenic conditions in the gut via immunologic and microbiological changes. Our finding of a novel potential skin-gut interaction provides new insights into the coincidence of psoriasis and IBD.
29781905	Acitretin	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell	1	0	0	0		Acitretin-Altered Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Pitfall in Diagnosis.	
29746430	Deoxycholic Acid	Vascular System Injuries	1	0	0	0		Vascular Injury After Deoxycholic Acid Injection.	
29727174	Vinyl Chloride	Hyperlipidemias	0	0	0	0		Exposure to Vinyl Chloride and Its Influence on Western Diet-Induced Cardiac Remodeling.	Obesity, usually caused by high fat diets (HFD), is a major public health issue worldwide, causing obesity associated cardiomyopathy. Moreover, the environmental toxicant vinyl chloride (VC) can exacerbate HFD-induced fatty liver disease. However, whether VC serves to enhance obesity-associated cardiomyopathy remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the interaction of western diet (WD) containing relatively low fat (42%) with VC on cardiac remodeling and its underling mechanisms. Adult male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to WD coinhalation of low-dose VC (<1 ppm/d) for 12 weeks. Results showed that WD feeding for 12 weeks caused slight cardiac systolic dysfunction without significant hypertrophy or fibrosis, even with VC. Nevertheless, WD upregulated NF-kappaB function and expression of IL-1beta and PAI-1, while VC showed no significant impact on these effects. In contrast, WD together with VC significantly increased the expression of CHOP and TGF-beta1, key markers for endoplasmic reticulum stress and profibrotic cytokine, respectively. In summary, exposure to low-dose of environmental toxicant VC while a WD is consumed for a relatively short time does not have significant impact on cardiac remodeling except for a mild systolic dysfunction of the heart.
29600521	Thrombin	Breast Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Phytosomal-curcumin antagonizes cell growth and migration, induced by thrombin through AMP-Kinase in breast cancer.	Here we explored the antitumor-activity of novel-formulated-form of curcumin (phytosomal-encapsulated-curcumin) or in combination with 5-FU in breast cancer. The antiproliferative activity was assessed in 2D and 3-dimensional cell-culture-model. The migratory-behaviors of the cells were determined by migration assay. The expression levels of CyclinD1,GSK3a/b, P-AMPK, MMP9, and E-cadherin were studied by qRT-PCR and/or Western blotting. The anti-inflammatory of nano-curcumin was assessed, while antioxidant activity was evaluated by malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and total thiols (T-SH). To understand dynamic behavior of genes, we reconstructed a Boolean network, while the robustness of this model was evaluated by Hamming distance. phytosomal-curcumin suppressed cell-growth followed by tumor-shrinkage in 3D model through perturbation of AMP-activated protein kinase. Curcumin reduced the invasiveness of MCF-7 through perturbation of E-cadherin. Moreover, phytosomal-curcumin inhibited the tumor growth in xerograph model. Histological staining of tumor tissues revealed vascular disruption and RBC extravasation, necrosis, tumor stroma, and inflammation. Co-treatment of curcumin and 5-FU reduced the lipid-peroxidation and increased MDA/SOD level. Of note, curcumin reduced cyclinD-expression in breast cancer cell treated with thrombin, and activates AMPK in a time-dependent manner. Also suppression of AMPK abrogated inhibitory effect of phytosomal-curcumin on thrombin-induced cyclin D1 over-expression, suggesting that AMPK is essential for anti-proliferative effect of this agent in breast cancer. Our finding demonstrated that phytosomal-curcumin antagonizes cell growth and migration, induced by thrombin through AMP-Kinase in breast cancer, supporting further-investigations on the therapeutic potential of this novel anticancer agent in treatment of breast cancer.
30567256	Potassium Chloride	Hyperaldosteronism	0	1	0	0		Potassium chloride mixture may maintain hypokalaemia and hypertension.	Hypokalaemia can be treated with potassium chloride mixture. Some mixtures contain liquorice extract (glycyrrhizin) as a supplement to improve taste. Glycyrrhizin can cause pseudohyperaldosteronism and thereby result in hypertension and hypokalaemia. We here present a case where treatment with potassium chloride mixture causes hypertension and hypokalaemia in a 50-year-old woman. After unravelling differential diagnosis, the potassium chloride mixture was stopped. After the discontinuation, the patient's blood pressure was well managed and the potassium levels normalised.
29731407	Darunavir	Cardiovascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cardiovascular disease and use of contemporary protease inhibitors: the D:A:D international prospective multicohort study.	BACKGROUND: Although earlier protease inhibitors have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease, whether this increased risk also applies to more contemporary protease inhibitors is unknown. We aimed to assess whether cumulative use of ritonavir-boosted atazanavir and ritonavir-boosted darunavir were associated with increased incidence of cardiovascular disease in people living with HIV. METHODS: The prospective Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) study consists of people living with HIV-1 from 11 cohorts in Australia, Europe, and the USA. Participants were monitored from Jan 1, 2009, until the earliest of a cardiovascular event, 6 months after the last visit, or until Feb 1, 2016. The outcome of interest was the incidence of cardiovascular disease in adults (aged >/=16 years) living with HIV who were being treated with contemporary treatments. We defined cardiovascular disease as centrally validated myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden cardiac death, or use of invasive cardiovascular procedures, including coronary bypass, coronary angioplasty, and carotid endarterectomy. We used Poisson regression models to assess the associations between cardiovascular disease and the contempoary protease inhibitors atazanavir and darunavir (both boosted with ritonavir). FINDINGS: 49 709 participants were enrolled in the original cohort from 1999 onwards; 35 711 (71.8%) participants with available data on CD4 cell count and viral load at the 2009 baseline were included in the current analysis, and 13 998 (28.2%) participants had insufficent follow-up data after 2009. During a median 6.96 years of follow-up (IQR 6.28-7.08), 1157 people developed cardiovascular disease (incidence rate 5.34 events per 1000 person-years; 95% CI 5.03-5.65). The incidence rate of cardiovascular disease progressively increased from 4.91 events per 1000 person-years (4.59-5.23) in individuals unexposed to ritonavir-boosted darunavir to 13.67 events per 1000 person-years (8.51-18.82) in those exposed to the drug for more than 6 years. The changes associated with ritonavir-boosted atazanavir were less pronounced, showing an incidence rate of 5.03 cardiovascular events per 1000 person-years (4.69-5.37) in unexposed individuals to 6.68 events per 1000 person-years (5.02-8.35) in participants exposed for more than 6 years. After adjustment, keeping factors on the potential causal pathway from boosted protease inhibitor use to cardiovascular disease fixed at baseline, ritonavir-boosted darunavir use was associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease (incidence rate ratio 1.59; 95% CI 1.33-1.91 per 5 years additional use), but use of ritonavir-boosted atazanavir was not (1.03; 0.90-1.18). This association remained after adjustment for time-updated factors on the potential causal pathway; myocardial infarction and stroke separately; plasma bilirubin concentration; and after stratification by use of ritonavir-boosted darunavir as the first ever protease inhibitor, used in combination with a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, by previous virological failure, and by those at high risk of cardiovascular disease. INTERPRETATION: Cumulative use of ritonavir-boosted darunavir, but not of ritonavir-boosted atazanavir, is associated with progressively increasing risk of cardiovascular disease. Causal inference is limited by the observational nature of the D:A:D study. Our findings should prompt investigation into the possible underlying mechanisms of this finding. FUNDING: The Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy Oversight Committee.
30786680	Human Growth Hormone	Thyroid Cancer, Papillary	1	1	0	0	0.0	Papillary thyroid carcinoma in a patient with Turner syndrome treated with human growth hormone.	Thyroid cancer is a rare pathology in childhood and adolescence, being responsible for 1.5-3% of all carcinomas in this age group. Differentiated thyroid carcinoma is the most commonly found variant, especially papillary carcinoma of the thyroid (PCT). Currently available data support the hypothesis that growth hormone (GH) as well as insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) can facilitate carcinogenesis. There is a confirmed role of the GH/IGF-1 axis in cancer progression as an initiator of tumorigenesis and neoplastic transformation, metastasis, and resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Presently, application of recombinant GH is an acceptable method to treat female patients with growth failure during the course of Turner syndrome (TS). This article reports the case of a fourteen-year-old female patient with Turner syndrome, Hashimoto thyroiditis, and papillary thyroid carcinoma diagnosed during GH treatment. The immunochemical analysis of tumour tissue in our patient revealed intensive brown reaction that labelled expression of the IGF-1R vs. traced reaction or its lack in normal thyroid tissue. A significant role is played by IGF-1 in the pathogenesis of invasion of thyroid cancer; however, this effect is complex, and how it works is not well established.
30646927	Panitumumab	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	1	1	1.0	Leukocytoclastic vasculitis with purpura and renal failure induced by the anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody panitumumab: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Panitumumab is the first human combinatorial antibody for the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Dermatologic toxicity of all grades occurs in more than 90% of patients. However, there are few reports of purpura induced by anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody. Renal failure is also uncommon as an adverse event of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody. CASE PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old Japanese man with advanced colon cancer received monotherapy with panitumumab. General malaise, bilateral edema of his legs, and bilateral purpura of his forearms developed 2 days after the second cycle of panitumumab. A skin biopsy was performed to evaluate the purpuric lesions on his left leg and leukocytoclastic vasculitis was diagnosed. Blood tests showed grade III acute renal failure with a blood urea nitrogen level of 33.8 mg/dL and a creatinine level of 3.10 mg/dL. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first reported case of leukocytoclastic vasculitis followed by purpura and acute renal failure associated with panitumumab.
30646927	Panitumumab	Purpura	1	1	1	1	1.0	Leukocytoclastic vasculitis with purpura and renal failure induced by the anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody panitumumab: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Panitumumab is the first human combinatorial antibody for the treatment of metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Dermatologic toxicity of all grades occurs in more than 90% of patients. However, there are few reports of purpura induced by anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody. Renal failure is also uncommon as an adverse event of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor antibody. CASE PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old Japanese man with advanced colon cancer received monotherapy with panitumumab. General malaise, bilateral edema of his legs, and bilateral purpura of his forearms developed 2 days after the second cycle of panitumumab. A skin biopsy was performed to evaluate the purpuric lesions on his left leg and leukocytoclastic vasculitis was diagnosed. Blood tests showed grade III acute renal failure with a blood urea nitrogen level of 33.8 mg/dL and a creatinine level of 3.10 mg/dL. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first reported case of leukocytoclastic vasculitis followed by purpura and acute renal failure associated with panitumumab.
30526752	Adalimumab	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	0	0	0		Are anti-TNF drugs safe for pregnant women with inflammatory bowel disease?	
30526752	Certolizumab Pegol	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	0	0	0		Are anti-TNF drugs safe for pregnant women with inflammatory bowel disease?	
30213441	Methamphetamine	Liver Failure	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe neurologic and hepatic toxicity in a newborn prenatally exposed to methamphetamine. A case report.	OBJECTIVE: In the recent years the increase of methamphetamines (MTA) abusers women has become an emerging problem. Very little data has been published regarding the effects of prenatal MTA exposure. We describe a case of MTA related toxicity in a term newborn which have early onset of neonatal encephalopathy and liver failure. CASE REPORT: A term infant born to a MTA abuser mother developed seizures and severe neurological symptoms shortly after birth. Methamphetamine was detected both in maternal and in neonatal urine. The laboratoristic tests revealed severe hepatic insufficiency, coagulopathy and thrombocytopenia. Due to neonatal encephalopathy the newborn underwent hypothermia. Phenobarbital, fresh frozen plasma, platelet transfusions and vitamin K were administered. Cranial ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed diffuse white matter damage and two ischemic-hemorrhagic cerebral lesions. Gradually the clinical conditions improved, at 1 month MRI showed a stabilization of cerebral lesions with residual diffuse leukomalacia. Physiotherapy and neurological follow up is ongoing to evaluate the long term effects. CONCLUSIONS: although infrequent, MTA-related toxicity should be suspected in infants with neurologic and hepatic symptoms. Further studies are warranted to confirm our findings in order to identify newborns at high risk of acute MTA toxicity in time to provide them the appropriate support.
30141825	Norepinephrine	Hand Injuries	0	0	0	0		Surgical treatment of extravasation injuries: experience of the Hospital das Clinicas, Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo.	OBJECTIVE: to report the experience of the Division of Plastic Surgery of the Hospital das Clinicas of the Medical School of the University of Sao Paulo in the treatment of cutaneous lesions due to accidental extravasation of drugs. METHODS: we included patients with lesions due to extravasation of drugs over a period of 18 months. We retrospectively evaluated the following parameters: age, diagnoses during hospitalization and comorbidities, serum levels of albumin and hemoglobin, place of hospitalization, drug involved, anatomic segment affected, therapeutic management and death during hospitalization. RESULTS: we followed-up 14 patients. The main drug involved was noradrenaline (21%). All patients underwent debridement of tissue necrosis. Three patients were submitted to flaps after preparation of the wound bed with negative pressure therapy, with good results. Seven patients had no definitive treatment of their lesions due to lack of clinical conditions. CONCLUSION: in patients with favorable clinical conditions, the definitive treatment with flaps was adequate for cases of wounds due to extravasation of drugs in the subcutaneous tissue when there was exposure of noble structures.
29175284	Etanercept	Vitiligo	1	1	0	0	0.0	Increased Risk of Vitiligo Following Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor Therapy: A 10-Year Population-Based Cohort Study.	Anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha (anti-TNF) therapy is used to treat a wide range of chronic inflammatory conditions. However, there has been an increasing number of reports of development of vitiligo and alopecia areata secondary to anti-TNF therapy. In this study, we investigated the risks of vitiligo and alopecia areata in patients with ankylosing spondylitis, Crohn's disease, or ulcerative colitis, who were treated with or without anti-TNF therapy using data from the Korean National Health Insurance Claims database from 2007 to 2016. The study comprised 11,442 patients treated with anti-TNF agents (anti-TNF group), and an equal number of age-, sex-, and disease- matched patients treated without anti-TNF agents (unexposed group). Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models were used to compare the risks of vitiligo and alopecia areata between the two groups. A significantly increased risk of vitiligo (hazard ratio = 1.99, 95% confidence interval = 1.06-3.75) was observed in the anti-TNF group compared to the unexposed group (5.9/10,000 person-years vs. 2.5/10,000 person-years). In subgroup analyses, younger patients and those treated with etanercept showed higher risks of vitiligo. The risk of alopecia areata was not significantly different between the two groups. Our results provide insight on the role of cytokine imbalance in the pathogenesis of vitiligo.
29138057	Alanine	Hidradenitis Suppurativa	1	0	0	0		Hidradenitis Suppurativa-Like Lesions Associated with Pharmacologic Inhibition of Gamma-Secretase.	
28073513	Capecitabine	Pancytopenia	1	0	0	0		A fatal drug interaction.	
31008947	Cyclosporine	Muscular Atrophy	1	1	0	0	1.0	A case report of cyclosporine-induced myopathy with subacute muscular atrophy as initial presentation.	RATIONALE: Cyclosporine A (CsA) is a potent immunosuppressive agent originally used to prevent rejection after organ transplantation but now more frequently used for treatment of refractory autoimmune diseases. It can induce adverse effects, such as nephrotoxicity, gastrointestinal reactions, and gingival hyperplasia whist myopathy with subacute muscular atrophy are rare. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old male patient with idiopathic membranous nephropathy treated with cyclosporine A at 3 mg/kg/d and prednisone at 0.5 mg/kg.d for more than 20 days, gradually developed lower limb weakness, which were progressively aggravated until he was unable to stand or walk. A physical examination show muscle atrophy of both lower extremities, which was more severe in the right thigh muscle than the left, decreased muscular tension of the limbs was also observed. DIAGNOSES: Light microscopy and Transmission electron microscopy of muscle (quadriceps femoris) biopsy revealed drug-induced myopathy rather than neurogenic damage. INTERVENTIONS: Cyclosporine was withdrawn and replaced with cyclophosphamide tablets, prednisone remain unchanged and other symptomatic therapies were also administered. OUTCOMES: His bilateral thigh muscle atrophy showed improvement and lower limb weakness was obviously alleviated and he could stand and walk with the help of others 4 weeks later. Gradually, his thigh muscle atrophy was alleviated so that he was able to walk independently. After follow-up, no similar symptoms were found in the patients. LESSONS: CsA-induced myopathy with muscular atrophy is rare and serious, which can be identified according to pathological characteristics.
30674059	Tirofiban	Postoperative Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Severe tirofiban-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombotic microangiopathy after percutaneous coronary intervention].	HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDING: A 76-year-old patient suffered a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and was admitted to our Chest Pain Unit (CPU) for further diagnostics and therapy. EXAMINATIONS AND DIAGNOSIS: Coronary angiography revealed an occlusion of the right coronary artery and catheter intervention with stent implantation was performed. Due to a high thrombotic burden, application of tirofiban was initiated. In the following, the patient developed hemodynamic instability, hemoptysis and a substantial decrease of the platelet count. THERAPY AND COURSE: Tirofiban therapy was immediately stopped. Volume therapy led to hemodynamic stabilisationand hemoptysisdisappeared. Thrombocytes normalised after application of a platelet concentrate and prednisolone. One day later, the patient developed pulmonary hemorrhage with asphyxial cardiac arrest.Within the next few days, a renewed decrease of thrombocytes occurred. Despite normalization of thrombocytes after another transfusion, the patient died in consequence of a severe sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombocytopenia is a rare but potentially severe complication of tirofiban therapy. Therapeutic strategies include termination of the triggering medication, clarification of differential diagnoses and transfusion of platelet concentrates, if necessary.
30674059	Tirofiban	Thrombocytopenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Severe tirofiban-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombotic microangiopathy after percutaneous coronary intervention].	HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDING: A 76-year-old patient suffered a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and was admitted to our Chest Pain Unit (CPU) for further diagnostics and therapy. EXAMINATIONS AND DIAGNOSIS: Coronary angiography revealed an occlusion of the right coronary artery and catheter intervention with stent implantation was performed. Due to a high thrombotic burden, application of tirofiban was initiated. In the following, the patient developed hemodynamic instability, hemoptysis and a substantial decrease of the platelet count. THERAPY AND COURSE: Tirofiban therapy was immediately stopped. Volume therapy led to hemodynamic stabilisationand hemoptysisdisappeared. Thrombocytes normalised after application of a platelet concentrate and prednisolone. One day later, the patient developed pulmonary hemorrhage with asphyxial cardiac arrest.Within the next few days, a renewed decrease of thrombocytes occurred. Despite normalization of thrombocytes after another transfusion, the patient died in consequence of a severe sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombocytopenia is a rare but potentially severe complication of tirofiban therapy. Therapeutic strategies include termination of the triggering medication, clarification of differential diagnoses and transfusion of platelet concentrates, if necessary.
30674059	Tirofiban	Thrombotic Microangiopathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Severe tirofiban-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombotic microangiopathy after percutaneous coronary intervention].	HISTORY AND CLINICAL FINDING: A 76-year-old patient suffered a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and was admitted to our Chest Pain Unit (CPU) for further diagnostics and therapy. EXAMINATIONS AND DIAGNOSIS: Coronary angiography revealed an occlusion of the right coronary artery and catheter intervention with stent implantation was performed. Due to a high thrombotic burden, application of tirofiban was initiated. In the following, the patient developed hemodynamic instability, hemoptysis and a substantial decrease of the platelet count. THERAPY AND COURSE: Tirofiban therapy was immediately stopped. Volume therapy led to hemodynamic stabilisationand hemoptysisdisappeared. Thrombocytes normalised after application of a platelet concentrate and prednisolone. One day later, the patient developed pulmonary hemorrhage with asphyxial cardiac arrest.Within the next few days, a renewed decrease of thrombocytes occurred. Despite normalization of thrombocytes after another transfusion, the patient died in consequence of a severe sepsis. CONCLUSIONS: Thrombocytopenia is a rare but potentially severe complication of tirofiban therapy. Therapeutic strategies include termination of the triggering medication, clarification of differential diagnoses and transfusion of platelet concentrates, if necessary.
30529589	Morphine	Behavioral Symptoms	0	1	0	0		Cholinergic M(4) receptors are involved in morphine-induced expression of behavioral sensitization by regulating dopamine function in the nucleus accumbens of rats.	Repeated administration of morphine profoundly influences the dopaminergic and cholinergic systems in the nucleus accumbens [including the shell of the nucleus accumbens (NAcS)]. Further, dopamine release is regulated by the cholinergic system, especially the M(4) receptor. Drug priming is one of the main factors that induces relapse in drug addiction. The present study first investigated how activation of the M(4) receptor in the NAcS affects the expression of morphine-induced behavioral sensitization, through the administration of an M(4) agonist (LY2033298) and antagonist (tropicamide), as well as a combination of an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and M(4) antagonist (huperzine-A + tropicamide). Additionally, the influence of a dopamine receptor agonist, in conjunction with an M(4) agonist (i.e., SKF38393 + LY2033298), was also examined. Behavioral sensitization was established by exposure to 5 mg/kg morphine once every three days for a total of three exposures. The expression of behavioral sensitization was challenged by 5 mg/kg morphine. Results showed that (1) microinjection of the M(4) receptor agonist LY2033298 (0.2 mug/side), but not the antagonist tropicamide (5, 10, or 20 muM/side) into the NAcS blocked the expression of behavioral sensitization; (2) tropicamide (20 muM/side) reversed the inhibition effect of huperzine-A on this behavior; and (3) SKF38393 (1 mug/side) reversed the inhibitory effect of LY2033298 on the expression of morphine-induced behavioral sensitization. These results suggest that the cholinergic M(4) receptor in the NAcS plays an important role in the morphine-induced expression of behavioral sensitization through the regulation of dopamine function in rats.
30521934	Benserazide	Anxiety	1	0	0	0		Implication of nigral dopaminergic lesion and repeated L-dopa exposure in neuropsychiatric symptoms of Parkinson's disease.	This study aims to investigate the contribution of nigral dopaminergic (DA) cell loss, repeated exposure to DA medication and the combination of both to the development of neuropsychiatric symptoms observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). A bilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) was performed in rats. A set of animals was repeatedly administered with L-dopa (20 mg/kg/day) and benserazide (5 mg/kg/day) over 10 days starting from day 11 post-lesion. Behavioural testing was performed in week 3 post-lesion: novel object recognition (NOR), elevated plus maze (EPM) social interaction (SI) tests, and amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion (AIH). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant partial lesion (48%) in 6-OHDA versus sham rats. This lesion was not associated with motor impairment. However, lesioned rats displayed a significant deficit in the NOR, which was reversed by acute treatment with l-dopa/benserazide (12.5 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg respectively). Lesioned rats also displayed a deficit in the EPM which was not reversed by acute treatment with l-dopa. No difference was observed in the SI test or in the AIH assay. In all assays, no effect of chronic l-dopa exposure was observed. This study provides new insights into the neuropathophysiology associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms of PD. Our data strongly emphasises a not previously clearly identified critical role in cognition for the SNc. The results suggest that DA pathways were less directly involved in lesion-induced anxiety-like behaviour. We did not report any effect of chronic l-dopa exposure in the context of partial nigral cell loss.
30521934	Benserazide	Memory Disorders	1	0	0	0		Implication of nigral dopaminergic lesion and repeated L-dopa exposure in neuropsychiatric symptoms of Parkinson's disease.	This study aims to investigate the contribution of nigral dopaminergic (DA) cell loss, repeated exposure to DA medication and the combination of both to the development of neuropsychiatric symptoms observed in Parkinson's disease (PD). A bilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) was performed in rats. A set of animals was repeatedly administered with L-dopa (20 mg/kg/day) and benserazide (5 mg/kg/day) over 10 days starting from day 11 post-lesion. Behavioural testing was performed in week 3 post-lesion: novel object recognition (NOR), elevated plus maze (EPM) social interaction (SI) tests, and amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion (AIH). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a significant partial lesion (48%) in 6-OHDA versus sham rats. This lesion was not associated with motor impairment. However, lesioned rats displayed a significant deficit in the NOR, which was reversed by acute treatment with l-dopa/benserazide (12.5 mg/kg and 15 mg/kg respectively). Lesioned rats also displayed a deficit in the EPM which was not reversed by acute treatment with l-dopa. No difference was observed in the SI test or in the AIH assay. In all assays, no effect of chronic l-dopa exposure was observed. This study provides new insights into the neuropathophysiology associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms of PD. Our data strongly emphasises a not previously clearly identified critical role in cognition for the SNc. The results suggest that DA pathways were less directly involved in lesion-induced anxiety-like behaviour. We did not report any effect of chronic l-dopa exposure in the context of partial nigral cell loss.
30107238	Ethanol	Central Nervous System Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Resveratrol alleviates ethanol-induced neuroinflammation in vivo and in vitro: Involvement of TLR2-MyD88-NF-kappaB pathway.	Excessive ethanol (EtOH) intake affects cognitive function and leads to permanent learning and memory deficits. EtOH-induced neuroinflammation plays an important role in EtOH neurotoxicity. Studies have shown that EtOH activates microglia and induces an inflammatory response. Resveratrol (Rsv) is a natural polyphenol found in a wide variety of plants and fruits, and produces the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects in the central nervous system. However, effect of Rsv on EtOH-induced neuroinflammation is still unknown. We investigated the anti-inflammatory effect of Rsv in the context of EtOH-induced neurotoxicity and the molecular mechanisms potentially involved in the effect. The results showed that treatment of rats with Rsv prevented the deficits of spatial reference memory induced by EtOH and mitigated EtOH-induced neuroinflammation by inhibiting microglial activation and decreasing the levels of inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha. The further studies indicated that Rsv reduced TLR2 expression in vivo and in vitro, and downregulated expression of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) and phosphorylation of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). These data demonstrate that Rsv alleviates the ethanol-induced neuroinflammation via inhibition of TLR2-MyD88-NF-kappaB signal pathway.
30878336	Triamcinolone	Fatigue	1	0	0	0		Fatigue after a corticosteroid joint injection.	
30844808	Aspartic Acid	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		A Phase 2 Study of PCI-27483, a Factor VIIa Inhibitor in Combination with Gemcitabine for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.	OBJECTIVES: Tissue factor overexpression is associated with tumor progression, venous thromboembolism, and worsened survival in patients with cancer. Tissue factor and activated factor VII (FVIIa) complex may contribute to tumor invasiveness by promoting cell migration and angiogenesis. The study objective was to evaluate safety, pharmacokinetics, and efficacy of PCI-27483, a selective FVIIa inhibitor. METHODS: This was an open-label, multicenter phase 2 trial of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. Part A of the study was an intrapatient dose escalation lead-in portion in patients concurrently receiving gemcitabine, and in part B, patients were randomized 1: 1 to the recommended phase 2 dose combination PCI-27483-gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone. RESULTS: Target international normalized ratio (between 2.0-3.0) was achieved following PCI-27483 treatment. Overall safety of PCI-27483-gemcitabine (n = 26) was similar to gemcitabine alone (n = 16), with a higher incidence of mostly low-grade bleeding events (65% vs. 19%). Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were not significantly different between patients treated with PCI-27483-gemcitabine (PFS: 3.7 months, OS: 5.7 months) and those treated with gemcitabine alone (PFS: 1.9 months, OS: 5.6 months). CONCLUSIONS: Targeted inhibition of the coagulation cascade was achieved by administering PCI-27483. PCI-27483-gemcitabine was well tolerated, but superiority to single agent gemcitabine was not demonstrated.
30767356	Pentobarbital	Spasm	0	0	0	0		Comparison of pentobarbital-phenytoin alone vs propofol prior to pentobarbital-phenytoin for euthanasia in 436 client-owned dogs.	OBJECTIVE: To report the incidence of adverse events during euthanasia of client-owned dogs administered either intravenous pentobarbital/phenytoin (PP) or PP after propofol delivery. DESIGN/SETTING: Prospective, observational, multi-site study. ANIMALS: Four hundred thirty-six dogs undergoing client-elected euthanasia over a 1-year period. INTERVENTIONS: Interventions included placement of an IV catheter and delivery of euthanasia agents (PP for the PP group, propofol followed by PP for the propofol group). Seven pre-determined adverse events were recorded: agonal breaths, urination, defecation, vocalization, muscle activity, dysphoria, and catheter complications. Euthanasia scores for each patient were defined as the sum of all adverse events (0-7) the patient exhibited. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Two hundred thirty-six dogs were in the PP group and 200 dogs were in the propofol group. No significant differences were detected in the dose of PP administered (166.9 +/- 105.6 mg/kg for PP group, 182.6 +/- 109.8 mg/kg for propofol group). Propofol dogs received 4.5 +/- 2.9 mg/kg propofol. The incidence of >/= 1 adverse event was 35.2% in the PP group and 26.5% in the propofol group (P = 0.052). Mean euthanasia scores (0.47 PP group, 0.32 propofol group) were not significantly different (P = 0.08). Propofol significantly reduced the incidence of muscle activity (6% vs. 14%, odds ratio 0.39; P = 0.0079). CONCLUSIONS: There was no difference in the likelihood of the studied adverse events during client-elected euthanasia in dogs when propofol was used prior to PP. There was a significant reduction in perimortem muscle activity if propofol was given prior to PP.
30610865	Capecitabine	Enteritis	1	0	0	0		Capecitabine-Induced Enteritis Leading to Small Bowel Obstruction.	
30610865	Capecitabine	Intestinal Obstruction	1	0	0	0		Capecitabine-Induced Enteritis Leading to Small Bowel Obstruction.	
30449777	Nivolumab	Anemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bicytopenia in Primary Lung Melanoma Treated with Nivolumab.	A 73-year-old man who was a current smoker complained of weakness in his limbs and slow movement and was diagnosed with primary lung melanoma with brain metastases. Following stereotactic brain radiotherapy, nivolumab was administrated. After the first cycle of nivolumab, his blood neutrophil count and hemoglobin levels started to decline. Excluding other possible causes, nivolumab was considered the most probable cause of bicytopenia. Nivolumab was not restarted, and the bicytopenia gradually recovered with no corticosteroid administration for this event. While serious hematological adverse events regarding immune checkpoint inhibitors have been assumed to be rare, severe neutropenia and anemia should be considered in patients receiving immune checkpoint therapy.
30449777	Nivolumab	Neutropenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bicytopenia in Primary Lung Melanoma Treated with Nivolumab.	A 73-year-old man who was a current smoker complained of weakness in his limbs and slow movement and was diagnosed with primary lung melanoma with brain metastases. Following stereotactic brain radiotherapy, nivolumab was administrated. After the first cycle of nivolumab, his blood neutrophil count and hemoglobin levels started to decline. Excluding other possible causes, nivolumab was considered the most probable cause of bicytopenia. Nivolumab was not restarted, and the bicytopenia gradually recovered with no corticosteroid administration for this event. While serious hematological adverse events regarding immune checkpoint inhibitors have been assumed to be rare, severe neutropenia and anemia should be considered in patients receiving immune checkpoint therapy.
30361845	Nivolumab	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1	1	0	0	0		Nivolumab-induced fulminant type 1 diabetes (T1D): the first Italian case report with long follow-up and flash glucose monitoring.	
30284618	Nivolumab	Diabetes Mellitus	1	1	0	1	0.0	Diabetes mellitus induced by PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors: description of pancreatic endocrine and exocrine phenotype.	AIMS: Programmed cell death-1 and programmed death ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) inhibitors restore antitumor immunity, but many autoimmune side-effects have been described. Diabetes mellitus is a rare complication, and little data concerning its pathophysiology and phenotype have been published. This study aimed to describe both pancreatic endocrine and exocrine functions, immunological features and change in pancreas volume in subjects with diabetes mellitus induced by PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitors. METHODS: We analyzed the data of six subjects treated with immunotherapy who presented acute diabetes. RESULTS: There were five men and one woman. Median age was 67 years (range 55-83). Three subjects were treated with nivolumab, two with pembrolizumab and one with durvalumab. Median time to diabetes onset after immunotherapy initiation was 4 months (range 2-13). Four patients presented fulminant diabetes (FD); none of these had type 1 diabetes (T1D)-related autoantibodies, none of them had T1D or FD-very high-risk HLA class II profiles. The bi-hormonal endocrine and exocrine pancreatic failure previously reported for one FD patient was not found in other FD subjects, but glucagon response was blunted in another FD patient. Pancreas volume was decreased at diabetes onset in 2 FD patients, and all patients presented a subsequent decrease of pancreas volume during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: In the patients presented herein, immunotherapy-induced diabetes was not associated with T1D-related autoantibodies. The hormonal and morphological analysis of the pancreatic glands of these six cases contributes to the understanding of the underlying and probably heterogeneous mechanisms. There is a need to find biomarkers to identify patients at risk to develop these new forms of diabetes at early stages of the process to prevent ketoacidosis and to evaluate preventive strategies.
29981307	Reserpine	Somatoform Disorders	0	1	0	0		Monoamine system disruption induces functional somatic syndromes associated symptomatology in mice.	Functional somatic syndromes (FSS), a clinical condition manifesting a variety of unexplained somatic symptoms, has been proposed as an inclusive nosology encompassing individual syndromes such as fibromyalgia syndrome and irritable bowel syndrome. Accumulating evidence suggests that disturbance of the endogenous monoamine system could be involved in the aetiology of FSS. Therefore, the purpose of present study was to investigate whether the disturbance of the monoamine system would cause FSS-associated symptomatology in mice. The optimal dose of reserpine, an inducer of endogenous monoamines reduction, was first explored in mice. General body condition (body weight, rectal temperature, and ptosis) and FSS-associated symptomatology (paw withdrawal threshold, small intestinal transit, and locomotor activity) were measured. The concentration of monoamines was measured in central and peripheral tissues. Mice dosed with reserpine (0.25 mg/kg s.c., once daily for 3 consecutive days) exhibited a decrease in paw withdrawal threshold, delay in small intestinal transit, and reduction of locomotor activity without deterioration of general body condition on day 5 after the first reserpine injection. The concentration of monoamines was decreased in the central nervous system and skeletal muscle, but not in the small intestine. A reserpine dose of 0.5 mg/kg or more caused deterioration of general body condition. In conclusion, the optimal protocol of reserpine treatment for inducing pain symptom without deterioration of general physical condition is 0.25 mg/kg s.c., once daily for 3 consecutive days in mice. This protocol causes not only pain but also FSS-associated symptomatology which are associated with disruption of the endogenous monoamine system. The reserpine-treated animal may be useful for the research of not only fibromyalgia syndrome but also FSS, especially for the research focusing on the hypothesis that FSS is associated with the disturbance of endogenous monoamine system.
29960804	Aminobutyrates	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	1	1	0	0	1.0	A Case of Palpitations Due to T-Wave Oversensing Caused by Sacubitril/Valsartan.	A 58-year-old man with previous mitral/aortic mechanical-valve replacement, aortic root repair, and coronary disease developed severe left-ventricular dysfunction following AV-node ablation/single-chamber pacemaker implantation for management of atrial fibrillation. He then underwent an upgrade to cardiac resynchronization therapy with a defibrillator. To manage his heart failure better, angiotensin-receptor blocker therapy was changed to sacubitril/valsartan, after which symptomatic palpitations with T-wave oversensing occurred. The resolved T-wave oversensing and palpitations stopped upon discontinuation of sacubitril/valsartan and recurred upon rechallenge, requiring a switch back to valsartan monotherapy. Our report presents the first known case of T-wave oversensing due to sacubitril/valsartan.
29859968	Clopidogrel	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	0	0	0	0		Safety of ticagrelor in patients with baseline conduction abnormalities: A PLATO (Study of Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) analysis.	BACKGROUND: Although bradyarrhythmias have been observed with ticagrelor and its use with advanced atrioventricular block is not recommended, questions arise regarding its use in patients with mild conduction abnormalities. The objectives were to compare rates of clinically relevant arrhythmias in relation to any mild baseline conduction abnormality in patients with acute coronary syndrome randomized to ticagrelor versus clopidogrel. METHODS: We included all subjects in the electrocardiographic (ECG) substudy of the Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes trial, excluding those with missing baseline ECG or with a pacemaker at baseline (N = 15,460). Conduction abnormality was defined as sinus bradycardia, first-degree atrioventricular block, hemiblock, or bundle-branch block. The primary arrhythmic outcome was the composite of any symptomatic brady- or tachyarrhythmia, permanent pacemaker placement, or cardiac arrest through 12 months. RESULTS: Patients with baseline conduction abnormalities (n = 4,256, 27.5%) were older and more likely to experience the primary arrhythmic outcome. There were no differences by ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in the composite arrhythmic end point in those with baseline conduction disease (1-year cumulative incidence rate: 17% for both study arms; hazard ratio: 0.99 [0.86-1.15]) or without baseline conduction disease (1-year cumulative incidence rate: clopidogrel 12.8% vs ticagrelor 12.4%; hazard ratio: 0.98 (0.88-1.09). There were also no statistically significant differences between ticagrelor and clopidogrel in the rates of bradycardic (or any individual arrhythmic) events in patients with baseline conduction abnormalities. CONCLUSIONS: Ticagrelor compared to clopidogrel did not increase arrhythmic events even in subjects with acute coronary syndrome who present with mild conduction abnormalities on their baseline ECG.
29859968	Ticagrelor	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	0	0	0	0		Safety of ticagrelor in patients with baseline conduction abnormalities: A PLATO (Study of Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) analysis.	BACKGROUND: Although bradyarrhythmias have been observed with ticagrelor and its use with advanced atrioventricular block is not recommended, questions arise regarding its use in patients with mild conduction abnormalities. The objectives were to compare rates of clinically relevant arrhythmias in relation to any mild baseline conduction abnormality in patients with acute coronary syndrome randomized to ticagrelor versus clopidogrel. METHODS: We included all subjects in the electrocardiographic (ECG) substudy of the Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes trial, excluding those with missing baseline ECG or with a pacemaker at baseline (N = 15,460). Conduction abnormality was defined as sinus bradycardia, first-degree atrioventricular block, hemiblock, or bundle-branch block. The primary arrhythmic outcome was the composite of any symptomatic brady- or tachyarrhythmia, permanent pacemaker placement, or cardiac arrest through 12 months. RESULTS: Patients with baseline conduction abnormalities (n = 4,256, 27.5%) were older and more likely to experience the primary arrhythmic outcome. There were no differences by ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in the composite arrhythmic end point in those with baseline conduction disease (1-year cumulative incidence rate: 17% for both study arms; hazard ratio: 0.99 [0.86-1.15]) or without baseline conduction disease (1-year cumulative incidence rate: clopidogrel 12.8% vs ticagrelor 12.4%; hazard ratio: 0.98 (0.88-1.09). There were also no statistically significant differences between ticagrelor and clopidogrel in the rates of bradycardic (or any individual arrhythmic) events in patients with baseline conduction abnormalities. CONCLUSIONS: Ticagrelor compared to clopidogrel did not increase arrhythmic events even in subjects with acute coronary syndrome who present with mild conduction abnormalities on their baseline ECG.
29703563	Lamotrigine	Ventricular Fibrillation	1	1	1	1	1.0	Refractory ventricular fibrillation in patient taking Lamictal.	Refractory ventricular fibrillation occurs when there are three or more episodes of ventricular fibrillation within a 24-hour period. We report the first case of a 35-year-old woman without prior medical or family cardiac history who sustained refractory ventricular fibrillation while taking Lamictal for bipolar depression. She presented to the Emergency Department (ED) after a syncopal episode at work. She then sustained a cardiac arrest and required defibrillation in the ED multiple times due to recurrent ventricular fibrillation. The patient received a Subcutaneous Implantable Cardio-Defibrillator and was discharged home. There was no identifiable cardiac or medical cause of her ventricular fibrillation and the electrophysiologist suspected Lamictal caused her refractory ventricular fibrillation.
29607622	Hyaluronic Acid	Oculomotor Nerve Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ischemic oculomotor nerve palsy due to hyaluronic acid filler injection.	Hyaluronic acid (HA) is the most popular agent today for intradermal injections to improve wrinkles and other cosmetic defects. Ischemic necrosis due to injection of HA is one of the serious complications. Because there are many vascular branches around the nose, caution and care should be given during facial filler injection. Although the incidence is rare, blindness and permanent visual loss may occur. We describe a 29-year-old woman presented with painful erythematous swelling with violaceous patch on right periocular area and glabella after HA filler injection. After injecting the filler, she felt pain and dizziness, and her vision became blurred. She immediately received hyaluronidase around the HA filler inject area and during hospitalized for 10 days, she was successfully treated with systemic steroid, vasodilator, prophylactic antibiotics, and LLLT (low-level laser therapy) without any defects.
29400292	Nivolumab	Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic	0	0	0	0		No recurrence of nivolumab-induced idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in a metastatic melanoma patient switched to ipilimumab.	
29266344	Vorinostat	Sepsis	0	0	0	0		A phase I/II trial of vorinostat (SAHA) in combination with rituximab-CHOP in patients with newly diagnosed advanced stage diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL): SWOG S0806.	Loss of major histocompatibility Class II expression (MHCII) in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) correlates with decreased survival. MHCII transcription is in part regulated by histone acetylation. We tested the hypothesis that combination of histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) with standard chemotherapy would improve outcomes in DLBCL in part through increased MHCII expression. S0806 was a single arm phase I/II trial of vorinostat given at 400 mg po daily on days 1-9 (subsequently amended to days 1-5 due to toxicity), combined with R-CHOP given on day 3 of a 21-day cycle for 8 cycles, with primary phase II endpoint of 2-year progression free survival (PFS). With 72 evaluable patients, at median follow up of 3 years, 2-year PFS estimate was 73%, and OS estimate was 86%. Considering that the regimen fell short of predefined efficacy improvement and was associated with high rates of febrile neutropenia (38%) and sepsis (19%), it cannot be recommended for general use. Consistent with our hypothesis, patients with low MCHII expression on S0806 had numerically superior outcomes compared to those from trial S0433 which did not use an HDACI, but the difference was not statistically significant. Current studies are focused on finding biomarkers of response to HDACI.
29159865	Hyaluronoglucosaminidase	Facial Dermatoses	1	1	0	0	0.0	Delayed allergic hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase during the treatment of granulomatous hyaluronic acid reactions.	Hyaluronic acid (HA) is now extensively employed for esthetic concerns. In the majority of cases, HA is considered to be safe, but mild-to-severe complications can occur in a few cases. Hyaluronidase is enzymes that degrade HA, also being suggested for the treatment of HA filler-induced complications. However, hyaluronidase has been reported to be a potential cause of allergic responses in some anesthetic and ophthalmic literature. However, there are few reports of allergic reactions to hyaluronidase in cosmetic medicine. We herein report on a 39-year-old Asian woman who developed a delayed allergic hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase in the treatment process of HA-related granulomatous reaction.
29159865	Hyaluronoglucosaminidase	Granuloma, Foreign-Body	1	1	0	0	0.0	Delayed allergic hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase during the treatment of granulomatous hyaluronic acid reactions.	Hyaluronic acid (HA) is now extensively employed for esthetic concerns. In the majority of cases, HA is considered to be safe, but mild-to-severe complications can occur in a few cases. Hyaluronidase is enzymes that degrade HA, also being suggested for the treatment of HA filler-induced complications. However, hyaluronidase has been reported to be a potential cause of allergic responses in some anesthetic and ophthalmic literature. However, there are few reports of allergic reactions to hyaluronidase in cosmetic medicine. We herein report on a 39-year-old Asian woman who developed a delayed allergic hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase in the treatment process of HA-related granulomatous reaction.
30611627	Tirofiban	Intracranial Hemorrhages	0	0	0	0		Safety of Intra-Arterial Tirofiban Administration in Ischemic Stroke Patients after Unsuccessful Mechanical Thrombectomy.	PURPOSE: To assess the safety of low-dose intra-arterial (IA) tirofiban bolus after unsuccessful mechanical thrombectomy in patients with ischemic stroke due to large artery occlusion in anterior cerebral circulation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with ischemic stroke who were treated with mechanical thrombectomy were enrolled in a multicenter registry. Low-dose tirofiban was injected into the residual arterial thrombus in patients after unsuccessful mechanical thrombectomy. The major safety measurement was defined as symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (SICH). The functional outcome at 90 days was assessed with the modified Rankin Scale, and a score of 0-2 was defined as favorable. RESULTS: Of the 632 enrolled patients, 154 (24.4%) received IA tirofiban treatment. The SICH rate was 13.6% (21/154) in patients with tirofiban and 16.7% (80/478) in patients without tirofiban (P = .361). IA tirofiban was not associated with increased risk of SICH (odds ratio [OR], 0.69; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.36-1.31; P = .26). IA tirofiban treatment did not increase the risk of mortality at 90 days of the index stroke (OR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.36-1.31; P = .15). Patients with large artery atherosclerosis stroke who were treated with tirofiban were associated with decreased risk of death (OR, 11.3% vs 23.4%; P = .042) compared to patients who were not treated with tirofiban. CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose IA tirofiban administration may be relatively safe in patients with ischemic stroke after unsuccessful recanalization.
30513217	Ethanol	Brain Injuries	0	1	0	0		GINS complex subunit 2 (GINS2) plays a protective role in alcohol-induced brain injury.	Acute alcohol intoxication is a central nervous system disease that accounts for a large number of hospital admissions. In the present study, we have explored the role of GINS complex subunit 2 (GINS2) in acute alcohol intoxication and alcohol-induced brain injury. We began by determining that GINS2 mRNA expression was significantly increased in the serum of patients with alcohol abuse. We then found that GINS2 is increased in mouse brains after alcohol consumption. To explore the role of GINS2 in alcohol-induced microglia function, we knocked down GINS2 in mouse microglia and then treated the cells with alcohol. Knockdown of GINS2 significantly increased alcohol-induced ROS production and the oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde. To explore if GINS2 is involved in alcohol-induced microglia apoptosis, we examined cell viability in GINS2 knockdown cells by TUNEL staining and caspase activity assays. Consistently, results showed that alcohol-induced cell apoptosis was promoted by knockdown of GINS2. Finally, we assessed expression levels of inflammatory factors in GINS2 knockdown microglial cells as well as the effects of GINS2 knockdown on NF-kappaB signalling. Inflammatory factors were stimulated by alcohol and further promoted by GINS2 knockdown, and GINS2 knockdown promoted alcohol-induced NF-kappaB activity in microglia.
30496255	Iodine	Corneal Injuries	1	0	0	0		Polyvinyl alcohol-iodine induced corneal epithelial injury in vivo and its protection by topical rebamipide treatment.	Periocular povidone-iodine (PI) and polyvinyl alcohol-iodine (PAI) have had a major role in the prevention of endophthalmitis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the corneal epithelial toxicity of PAI in a rabbit eye model using corneal resistance (CR) measurement, which is a good indicator of cell barrier function. Rabbit eyes were administered PAI solution at 4-, 6-, 8-, or 16-fold dilution with physiological saline solution (saline) or saline alone (control), to the conjunctival sac with/without wash-out with saline. Corneal epithelial injury assessed by fluorescein staining and the CR ratio was measured at 10 minutes (min) to 96 hours (h) after the initial administration. Histological observation was performed in the eyes following the PAI or control administrations. At 120 min after administration of PAI solution, the CR ratio was decreased and superficial punctate keratopathy (SPK) was significantly increased in each of the PAI-administered groups compared to the control. Recovery of CR and SPK after administration of 6- or 8-fold dilution of PAI was significantly delayed in eyes that were not subsequently washed with saline compared with eyes that were. Pre- or post-instillation of 2% rebamipide ophthalmic suspension significantly reduced PAI induced-SPK and -decrease of CR ratio. The CR method was able to accurately and quantitatively evaluate fine corneal epithelial injury. It is suggested that eyes should be washed with saline solution after administration of PAI solution or the instillation of rebamipide to prevent or reduce corneal epithelial injury.
30496255	Polyvinyl Alcohol	Corneal Injuries	1	0	0	0		Polyvinyl alcohol-iodine induced corneal epithelial injury in vivo and its protection by topical rebamipide treatment.	Periocular povidone-iodine (PI) and polyvinyl alcohol-iodine (PAI) have had a major role in the prevention of endophthalmitis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the corneal epithelial toxicity of PAI in a rabbit eye model using corneal resistance (CR) measurement, which is a good indicator of cell barrier function. Rabbit eyes were administered PAI solution at 4-, 6-, 8-, or 16-fold dilution with physiological saline solution (saline) or saline alone (control), to the conjunctival sac with/without wash-out with saline. Corneal epithelial injury assessed by fluorescein staining and the CR ratio was measured at 10 minutes (min) to 96 hours (h) after the initial administration. Histological observation was performed in the eyes following the PAI or control administrations. At 120 min after administration of PAI solution, the CR ratio was decreased and superficial punctate keratopathy (SPK) was significantly increased in each of the PAI-administered groups compared to the control. Recovery of CR and SPK after administration of 6- or 8-fold dilution of PAI was significantly delayed in eyes that were not subsequently washed with saline compared with eyes that were. Pre- or post-instillation of 2% rebamipide ophthalmic suspension significantly reduced PAI induced-SPK and -decrease of CR ratio. The CR method was able to accurately and quantitatively evaluate fine corneal epithelial injury. It is suggested that eyes should be washed with saline solution after administration of PAI solution or the instillation of rebamipide to prevent or reduce corneal epithelial injury.
30143243	Ipilimumab	Lymphoproliferative Disorders	1	0	0	0		[Hepatic and digestive adverse events of immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-CTLA-4 and, anti-PD-1/PD-L1): A clinico-pathological review].	Immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1/PD-L1) have recently revolutionized anti-cancer therapy and are nowadays used in different metastatic cancers. These treatments may induce immune-related adverse events which frequently involve the digestive tract and, to a less extent the liver. The tissular injuries, which are still poorly characterized from a morphological and physiopathological point of view, may lead on one side to the interruption of a life-saving treatment and on the other side to the development of severe complications, if not death. Therefore, it is crucial to diagnose as early as possible and treat these digestive and hepatic adverse effects in an optimal way. This article aims to describe the clinical and pathological presentations of digestive and hepatic adverse events induced by these immunotherapies.
30079483	Olanzapine	Hand Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Dorsal hand skin hyperpigmentation following oral olanzapine (Zyprexa) use.	
30079483	Olanzapine	Hyperpigmentation	1	0	0	0		Dorsal hand skin hyperpigmentation following oral olanzapine (Zyprexa) use.	
29626029	Infliximab	Chest Pain	0	0	0	0		Respiratory symptoms in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease.	
29145229	Ibuprofen	Atrial Fibrillation	1	0	0	0		Ibuprofen-induced Kounis syndrome with diffuse ST segment depression and atrial fibrillation.	
28291070	Tretinoin	Retinal Neovascularization	0	1	0	0		FLORID NEOVASCULARIZATION OF THE RETINA IN A DIABETIC PATIENT UNDERGOING INDUCTION AND CONSOLIDATION THERAPY FOR ACUTE PROMYELOCYTIC LEUKEMIA.	PURPOSE: To report on a 39-year-old gentleman with a background of Type 2 diabetes mellitus who was diagnosed with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), which was treated by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), and subsequently developed bilateral neovascularization of the disk (NVD). METHODS: Ophthalmic examination and investigation including fundus photography and fluorescein angiography. RESULTS: Three months after commencement of ATRA therapy, the patient was found to have florid bilateral NVD with adjacent preretinal and intraretinal hemorrhages. Fundus fluorescein angiography was undertaken and NVD was confirmed in both eyes, which was significantly greater than expected for the extent of disease secondary to diabetic retinopathy. As a result of the fluorescein angiography findings, we believe ATRA-mediated upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor may be the etiology of the NVD. Literature review shows some in vitro studies, which describe ATRA-induced upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor in ocular tissues. The patient was managed successfully by cessation of ATRA and a single intravitreal injection of bevacizumab in each eye. CONCLUSION: Acute promyelocytic leukemia treated with ATRA may result in upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor in retinal tissues. Subsequent development of NVD may occur; however, this resolves well by cessation of ATRA and intravitreal injection of bevacizumab. We recommend that all patients undergoing treatment with ATRA for acute promyelocytic leukemia be monitored by an ophthalmologist.
28267111	Sodium Tetradecyl Sulfate	Blindness	1	1	0	1	1.0	BLIND-SIDED BY COSMETIC VEIN SCLEROTHERAPY: A CASE OF OPHTHALMIC ARTERIAL OCCLUSION.	PURPOSE: Cosmetic vein sclerotherapy is increasingly used to treat varicose veins because of its effectiveness and adherence with British Pharmacopoeia specifications. We present the first documented case of ophthalmic artery occlusion resulting in panocular ischemia secondary to intravascular injection of sodium tetradecyl sulfate sclerosant in a young healthy women seeking treatment for prominent facial veins in her forehead. METHODS: The patient presented with unilateral sudden loss of vision. Funduscopy demonstrated a pale retina, cherry-red spot, and sclerosant visualized directly at the macula. She underwent emergency treatment for central retinal artery occlusion followed by fundal photographs, fluorescein angiography, and optical coherence tomography. RESULTS: Despite intervention, the vision remained no perception to light. Magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography, and Doppler ultrasound were unremarkable. The patient later developed neovascular sequelae requiring laser pan-retinal photocoagulation. CONCLUSION: Widely regarded as safe, and approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the only published ocular side effects of foam sclerotherapy are transient visual disturbances or temporary scotomas. This case demonstrates irreversible loss of vision as a previously unreported complication. While undoubtedly rare, we believe physicians and surgeons using sclerosant in the orbital adnexa, face, nose, and sinuses should be aware of this sight-threatening complication of injection and counsel potential patients accordingly.
28267110	Rituximab	Macular Edema	1	1	0	0	0.0	CYSTOID MACULAR EDEMA SECONDARY TO RITUXIMAB.	BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: To describe a case of bilateral macular edema appearing after treatment with rituximab. METHODS: This is a case report describing macular edema after rituximab infusions. The information was collected retrospectively through chart review. RESULTS: A 53-year-old patient known for IgG4-related disease of the face and sinuses presented with bilateral decreased visual acuity from cystoid macular edema shortly after undergoing two rituximab infusions. Laboratory workup did not reveal any underlying systemic etiology. Treatment with topical and oral corticosteroids as well as with anti-vascular endothelial growth factor injections led to mild improvement. Treatment with intraocular triamcinolone resulted in complete resolution of the edema, although accompanied by an increase in intraocular pressure. CONCLUSION: Rituximab has been previously associated with macular edema. Macular edema causing visual loss shortly after receiving rituximab may respond to discontinuation of the rituximab and local steroid injection.
30847961	Adenine	Mitochondrial Myopathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	Toxic myopathy with multiple deletions in mitochondrial DNA associated with long-term use of oral anti-viral drugs for hepatitis B: A case study.	Oral nucleoside analogs (NAs) reduce hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication by inhibiting HBV DNA polymerase. However, NAs can also affect human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase, which can lead to mtDNA depletion (quantitative abnormality). Indeed, several mitochondrial myopathy cases have been reported in which a reduced mtDNA copy number was induced by oral NAs for hepatitis B. Herein, we report a case of toxic myopathy with multiple mtDNA deletions (qualitative abnormality) associated with long-term use of NAs for hepatitis B. A 68-year-old woman, who underwent long-term treatment with lamivudine and adefovir for chronic hepatitis B, developed proximal muscle weakness in the four extremities. Neurological examination showed mild proximal muscle weakness and atrophy in the four extremities. Upon admission to our hospital, her blood lactate/pyruvate ratio during an aerobic exercise test was elevated. Myogenic patterns were observed in lower limb muscles on electromyographic examination. Muscle magnetic resonance imaging revealed diffuse atrophy of proximal muscles in the four extremities with no signal changes. A biopsy from the biceps brachii muscle showed an abnormally large variation in fiber size, scattered muscle fibers with decreased cytochrome c oxidase activity, and ragged-red fibers. Analysis of mtDNA from skeletal muscle revealed no decrease in copy number but increased incidence of multiple deletions, including a deletion of 4977 base pairs (known as the common deletion) reflecting oxidative stress-induced mtDNA damage. This case study indicates that long-term oral antiviral therapy for hepatitis B can induce chronic oxidative damage to mtDNA resulting in qualitative mtDNA abnormalities and toxic myopathy.
30531140	Dasatinib	Agranulocytosis	1	1	0	1	0.0	[Agranulocytosis during therapy of chronic myeloid leukemia lymphoid blast crisis with dasatinib].	A 61-year-old female was diagnosed with a lymphoid crisis of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in February 201X and started chemotherapy combined with dasatinib (DAS). After 1 month of initiating second consolidation therapy, the neutrophils decreased to 1%, bone marrow examination revealed large granular lymphocytes (LGL) at 13%, and complete cytogenetic remission was attained (CCyR). Suspecting DAS-induced agranulocytosis, DAS was discontinued. After 2 weeks, LGL disappeared and neutrophils recovered. In this case, CCyR was attained for the first time when LGL increased. We considered that the expansion of LGL correlated with the clinical efficacy, and agranulocytosis was an off-target effect of DAS.
30402978	Afatinib	Acneiform Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Instrumental evaluation sensitively detects subclinical skin changes by the epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors and risk factors for severe acneiform eruption.	Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFRI), EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) and anti-EGFR antibodies commonly develop skin toxicities including acneiform eruption (AfE). However, precise skin changes and risk factors for severe AfE are still unclear. The objective of the current study was elucidation of the useful parameters for early and sensitive detection of the skin changes by EGFRI. Transepidermal water loss (TEWL), skin surface hydration, skin surface lipid levels and erythema/melanin index were serially measured for 2 weeks in 19 EGFR-TKI afatinib/erlotinib-treated patients and for 8 weeks in 20 anti-EGFR antibody cetuximab-treated patients. The TEWL levels of the cheek in the patients who developed AfE of grade 2 and more (AfE >/= Gr2) were already elevated at 7 days after the initiation of afatinib/erlotinib therapy compared with those before therapy as well as in patients with grade 1 or less (AfE </= Gr1). In patients treated with cetuximab, the skin surface hydration on the cheek in AfE >/= Gr2 patients significantly decreased compared with that of AfE </= Gr1 patients at the 2nd and 6th week. Baseline skin surface lipid levels and erythema index on the cheek of patients with AfE >/= Gr2 were significantly higher than those with AfE </= Gr1. The small sample size of the present study, especially for logistic regression analysis, is a limitation. In conclusion, instrumental evaluation declared rapid inflammatory changes of the skin by EGFRI and elucidated oily skin as a risk for severe AfE.
29958970	Gefitinib	Cystitis	1	0	0	0		Hemorrhagic Cystitis Associated With Gefitinib Treatment: A Case Report.	
30539740	Amikacin	Otorhinolaryngologic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Relationship between amikacin blood concentration and ototoxicity in low birth weight infants.	Amikacin (AMK) is used as empiric therapy for severe infections such as sepsis in low birth weight (LBW) infants. AMK administered once daily (OD) in adults is reported to be therapeutically effective and prevent side effects, however, evidence on AMK administration in LBW infants is limited, with no clear indications of effectiveness. We performed therapeutic drug monitoring analysis of 20 infants treated with AMK OD for severe infections such as bacteremia. Treatment effectiveness was admitted by the patients' medical records, and side effects of renal dysfunction and ototoxicity were investigated. The mean gestational age was 30.4 +/- 5 weeks and mean body weight (Bw) was 1280.2 +/- 809.8 g. The mean AMK dose was 14.1 +/- 2.6 mg/kg and mean administration period was 10.1 +/- 4.1 days. Blood concentration was measured 6.3 +/- 2.3 days after AMK administration; mean peak and trough concentrations were 29.1 +/- 7.5 mug/mL and 7.6 +/- 6.9 mug/mL, respectively. Additionally, therapeutic effect was observed in all patients, and no significant change in serum creatinine (CRE) concentration (a marker of renal dysfunction) was observed, suggesting no renal dysfunction. Ototoxicity was observed in 4 patients, 3 of whom had trough concentrations >/=10 mug/mL. When we categorized patients into two groups using a trough cut-off value of 10 mug/mL, no difference in AMK dose was observed. However, there were significant differences in peak concentration, Bw, volume of distribution and CRE. Our findings suggest AMK trough concentration >/=10 mug/mL significantly affects ototoxicity in neonates.
29778097	Pimozide	Breast Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hyperprolactinemia-inducing antipsychotics increase breast cancer risk by activating JAK-STAT5 in precancerous lesions.	BACKGROUND: Psychiatric medications are widely prescribed in the USA. Many antipsychotics cause serum hyperprolactinemia as an adverse side effect; prolactin-Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5) signaling both induces cell differentiation and suppresses apoptosis. It is controversial whether these antipsychotics increase breast cancer risk. METHODS: We investigated the impact of several antipsychotics on mammary tumorigenesis initiated by retrovirus-mediated delivery of either ErbB2 or HRas or by transgenic expression of Wnt-1. RESULTS: We found that the two hyperprolactinemia-inducing antipsychotics, risperidone and pimozide, prompted precancerous lesions to progress to cancer while aripiprazole, which did not cause hyperprolactinemia, did not. We observed that risperidone and pimozide (but not aripiprazole) caused precancerous cells to activate STAT5 and suppress apoptosis while exerting no impact on proliferation. Importantly, we demonstrated that these effects of antipsychotics on early lesions required the STAT5 gene function. Furthermore, we showed that only two-week treatment of mice with ruxolitinib, a JAK1/2 inhibitor, blocked STAT5 activation, restored apoptosis, and prevented early lesion progression. CONCLUSIONS: Hyperprolactinemia-inducing antipsychotics instigate precancerous cells to progress to cancer via JAK/STAT5 to suppress the apoptosis anticancer barrier, and these cancer-promoting effects can be prevented by prophylactic anti-JAK/STAT5 treatment. This preclinical work exposes a potential breast cancer risk from hyperprolactinemia-inducing antipsychotics in certain patients and suggests a chemoprevention regime that is relatively easy to implement compared to the standard 5-year anti-estrogenic treatment in women who have or likely have already developed precancerous lesions while also requiring hyperprolactinemia-inducing antipsychotics.
29576255	Thioctic Acid	Acidosis	1	0	0	1		First description of the alpha lipoic acid intoxication in an adult patient worldwide following oral administration.	
29561309	Docetaxel	Myositis	1	1	0	0	1.0	Acute myositis: an unusual and severe side effect of docetaxel: a case report and literature review.	Docetaxel is an antimicrotubules cytotoxic agent prescribed widely by medical oncologists in multiple tumor types (breast, lung, prostate, stomach, head, and neck). However, the side effects of docetaxel are numerous (cytopenia, peripheral edema, myalgia, arthralgia, alopecia, and sensitive neuropathy) and recent concerns have been raised about neutropenic enterocolitis in France. Here, we report the case of a 57-year-old patient with metastatic prostatic cancer, who developed a severe myositis and fasciitis grade IV 1 week after his second docetaxel infusion. We reviewed the five cases of docetaxel-related myositis described in the literature, and found that most of them occurred in patients with diabetes (n=5/5) or hypertension (n=4/5). A vascular toxicity may explain this severe complication, and patients with diabetes or hypertension should be monitored closely in the context of a docetaxel chemotherapy.
29557814	Gefitinib	Renal Insufficiency	1	1	0	1	0.0	Factors affecting time to reach and recover from gefitinib-induced hepatotoxicity.	Gefitinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) for non-small-cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations. Although a few studies have analyzed the causes of gefitinib-induced hepatotoxicity, research focusing on the time intervals before and after hepatotoxicity has yet to be reported. Therefore, this study investigated two types of factors: the time to reach gefitinib-induced hepatotoxicity and the time for recovery. From January 2013 to December 2014, a retrospective study was carried out on 473 non-small-cell lung cancer patients who were treated with gefitinib. The following data were collected: sex, age, body weight, height, body surface area, underlying disease, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status, smoking history, gefitinib dose, EGFR mutation, and concomitant drugs. Multivariate models showed that patients with mutations in exon 19 had around two-fold higher hepatotoxicity (>/=grade 2). Use of CYP3A4 inhibitors and smoking shortened time to hepatotoxicity  approximately 5-2-fold, respectively, whereas mutations in exon 21 prolonged time to hepatotoxicity by about 2.4-fold. Termination of gefitinib therapy showed 3.8-fold faster recovery. Our study showed that the concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibitors, smoking, and exon 21 affected the time to reach gefitinib-induced hepatotoxicity. Among the factors examined in this study including hepatotonic use and gefitinib termination, only cessation of gefitinib therapy significantly accelerated recovery.
30217687	Imiquimod	Lymphopenia	1	1	0	1	0.0	[Cytopenia under topical imiquimod in two patients treated with oral hydroxyurea].	BACKGROUND: Aldara((R)) is a topical immunomodulatory treatment. The risks of systemic passage are minimal. There have been rare reports of systemic adverse effects. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Case 1. Five sachets weekly of imiquimod were prescribed for Bowen's disease on the forearm in a patient known to have essential thrombocytosis under Hydrea((R)). His CBC was normal (6000 leukocytes/mm(3), 2200 PMN/mm, 230,000 platelets/mm(3)). Imiquimod was given in 15 sachets weekly. Fifteen day later, the patient presented bicytopenia (3000 leukocytes/mm(3), 1400 PMN/mm(3), 119,000 platelets/mm(3)). Hydroxyurea and imiquimod were suspended until normalization of CBC. Hydroxyurea was resumed without recurrence of the bicytopenia. The patient's history included an identical episode following application of imiquimod. Case 2. Five sachets weekly of imiquimod were prescribed for actinic keratosis on the scalp in a patient known to have primary polycythemia under hydroxyurea. Her CBC was normal except for anemia (Hb 11.5g/L, 160,000 platelets/mm(3), 1100 lymphocytes/mm(3)). Imiquimod was given in 12 sachets weekly. Ten days later, anemia increased (Hb 10g/dL) with lymphopenia (800/mm(3)) and thrombocytopenia (115,000/mm(3)). Suspension of imiquimod resulted in normalization of the previous CBC values. DISCUSSION: . The literature review identified reports of dose-dependent lymphopenia under oral imiquimod but not under Aldara((R)). The National Pharmacovigilance Database listed 10 cases of hematological disorders most likely caused by Aldara((R)). Hydroxyurea may induce cytopenia, and while it was not considered the sole causative agent in this case, it is likely to have had a triggering role in these patients with blood dyscrasias. Our findings show that misuse of imiquimod carries a potential risk of hematologic abnormality in patients receiving concomitant hydroxyurea, a commonly combined drug.
29960004	Finasteride	Hearing Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Review of the FAERS Data on 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors: Implications for Postfinasteride Syndrome.	OBJECTIVE: To quantify reports made to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), create a demographic of patient reports, and examine the cluster of symptoms to correlate consistency of postfinasteride syndrome (PFS) complaints. PFS is a provisional diagnosis encompassing a cluster of sexual, physical, and psychological and/or neurologic symptoms associated with 5-alpha reductase inhibitor use that emerge or continue after discontinuation of medication. MATERIALS AND METHODS: FAERS dataset of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors from April 2011 to October 2014 was obtained. Each FAERS report had 16 categories for completion, but not every report was fully completed. Statistical analysis compared variables of interest between the 2 doses of finasteride (1 mg vs 5 mg). RESULTS: From FAERS, 2048 monotherapy cases were identified: 1581 of finasteride 1 mg, 240 of finasteride 5 mg, and 226 of unreported doses. Possibly related to labeling changes, from 2011 to 2014, there was a significant increase in adverse events (AEs) reported involving 1 mg dosing. Finasteride use was reported with many sexual AEs including diminished libido, erectile dysfunction, and ejaculatory complaints. Other common AEs included dermatologic, metabolic, and psychological and/or neurologic complaints. There were more AE reports with the 1 mg dose than the 5 mg dose. One case of dutasteride reported back pain, not generally attributed to PFS. CONCLUSION: FAERS data suggests that finasteride exposure is reported with a diverse collection of symptoms, particularly in younger men on 1 mg dosage compared to older men on 5 mg. Many of these complaints fall well out of the realm of previously established AEs from long-term controlled studies.
29960004	Finasteride	Memory Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Review of the FAERS Data on 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors: Implications for Postfinasteride Syndrome.	OBJECTIVE: To quantify reports made to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), create a demographic of patient reports, and examine the cluster of symptoms to correlate consistency of postfinasteride syndrome (PFS) complaints. PFS is a provisional diagnosis encompassing a cluster of sexual, physical, and psychological and/or neurologic symptoms associated with 5-alpha reductase inhibitor use that emerge or continue after discontinuation of medication. MATERIALS AND METHODS: FAERS dataset of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors from April 2011 to October 2014 was obtained. Each FAERS report had 16 categories for completion, but not every report was fully completed. Statistical analysis compared variables of interest between the 2 doses of finasteride (1 mg vs 5 mg). RESULTS: From FAERS, 2048 monotherapy cases were identified: 1581 of finasteride 1 mg, 240 of finasteride 5 mg, and 226 of unreported doses. Possibly related to labeling changes, from 2011 to 2014, there was a significant increase in adverse events (AEs) reported involving 1 mg dosing. Finasteride use was reported with many sexual AEs including diminished libido, erectile dysfunction, and ejaculatory complaints. Other common AEs included dermatologic, metabolic, and psychological and/or neurologic complaints. There were more AE reports with the 1 mg dose than the 5 mg dose. One case of dutasteride reported back pain, not generally attributed to PFS. CONCLUSION: FAERS data suggests that finasteride exposure is reported with a diverse collection of symptoms, particularly in younger men on 1 mg dosage compared to older men on 5 mg. Many of these complaints fall well out of the realm of previously established AEs from long-term controlled studies.
29960004	Finasteride	Prostatitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	A Review of the FAERS Data on 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitors: Implications for Postfinasteride Syndrome.	OBJECTIVE: To quantify reports made to the Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), create a demographic of patient reports, and examine the cluster of symptoms to correlate consistency of postfinasteride syndrome (PFS) complaints. PFS is a provisional diagnosis encompassing a cluster of sexual, physical, and psychological and/or neurologic symptoms associated with 5-alpha reductase inhibitor use that emerge or continue after discontinuation of medication. MATERIALS AND METHODS: FAERS dataset of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors from April 2011 to October 2014 was obtained. Each FAERS report had 16 categories for completion, but not every report was fully completed. Statistical analysis compared variables of interest between the 2 doses of finasteride (1 mg vs 5 mg). RESULTS: From FAERS, 2048 monotherapy cases were identified: 1581 of finasteride 1 mg, 240 of finasteride 5 mg, and 226 of unreported doses. Possibly related to labeling changes, from 2011 to 2014, there was a significant increase in adverse events (AEs) reported involving 1 mg dosing. Finasteride use was reported with many sexual AEs including diminished libido, erectile dysfunction, and ejaculatory complaints. Other common AEs included dermatologic, metabolic, and psychological and/or neurologic complaints. There were more AE reports with the 1 mg dose than the 5 mg dose. One case of dutasteride reported back pain, not generally attributed to PFS. CONCLUSION: FAERS data suggests that finasteride exposure is reported with a diverse collection of symptoms, particularly in younger men on 1 mg dosage compared to older men on 5 mg. Many of these complaints fall well out of the realm of previously established AEs from long-term controlled studies.
28747073	Aripiprazole	Bipolar Disorder	0	0	0	0		The Osler's view: Treating comorbid bipolar disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder.	
28526470	Sevoflurane	Constriction, Pathologic	1	0	0	0		[Severe hypoxemia follows hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and/or hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction inhibition by inhaled anesthetics: prognostic potential of 100% shunt fractions].	
28526470	Sevoflurane	Hypoxia	1	0	0	0		[Severe hypoxemia follows hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction and/or hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction inhibition by inhaled anesthetics: prognostic potential of 100% shunt fractions].	
30411691	Artesunate	Anemia, Hemolytic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Delayed Hemolytic Anemia after Treatment with Artesunate: Case Report and Literature Review.	BACKGROUND: In recent years, few cases of post-artemisinin delayed hemolysis have been reported. OBJECTIVE: All cases of post-artemisinin delayed hemolysis were reported from non-middle east areas. No case of post-artemisinin delayed hemolysis has yet been reported from this region. In this paper, we describe a case of post-artemisinin delayed hemolysis in an Iranian female. Moreover, previous reports have been reviewed. METHODS: Patient's data including demographic characteristics, past medical, drug and travelling history, present illness, vital signs, laboratory data, clinical course of current illness and follow-up findings were considered. RESULTS: A 27-year-old female with a recent travel history to Ghana admitted with severe falciparum malaria. She was successfully treated with parenteral artesunate. However after 12 days of post artesunate treatment, she returned with dark urine, malaise and fatigue. CONCLUSION: Considering the clinical course and base on a reliable causality assessment scale, post artesunate delay hemolytic anemia was possible.
30369064	Triamcinolone Acetonide	Diplopia	1	0	0	0		Persisting diplopia after periocular injection of parallel imported Kenalog((R)) (triamcinolone acetonide).	
30062974	Dapsone	Sepsis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Dapsone Hypersensitivity Syndrome (DHS): A Detrimental Effect of Dapsone? A Case Report.	BACKGROUND: Dapsone is a sulfone derived drug used in the treatment of leprosy and several chronic inflammatory dermatological diseases. Dapsone Hypersensitivity Syndrome (DHS) is characterized by fever, hepatitis, generalized exfoliative dermatitis and lymphadenopathy. It is rare and potentially fatal. CASE REPORT: We present a case report of a 52 years old female with a recent history of antecedent dapsone exposure of 100 mg daily for 2 weeks. She developed fever 10 days after exposure to dapsone therapy and was treated in various primary and tertiary centers for features of sepsis. When she presented to us, clinical features of multi-organ dysfunction and intractable sepsis was evident. She was successfully managed with intravenous corticosteroids and other supportive therapy. This case of DHS is unique due to pulmonary, hepatic and colonic involvement in addition to secondary bacterial and fungal infection, which is associated with an increased risk of mortality. CONCLUSION: As dapsone is mainstay in the treatment several infections and inflammatory conditions, further research is needed to characterize markers to diagnose DHS and to develop screening policies prior to initiation of dapsone therapy.
31034363	Alemtuzumab	Myocardial Infarction	1	0	0	0		Alemtuzumab to be restricted pending review, says EMA.	
30898705	Interferon-gamma	Abortion, Veterinary	0	0	0	0		CXCL12 expression in aborted mouse uteri induced by IFN-gamma: Potential anti-inflammatory effect involves in endometrial restoration after abortion in mice.	Anti-inflammation is a key process to restore tissue integrity and function. CXCL12 is a homeostasis chemokine, which plays a coordinating role in organogenesis, tumorigenesis and regeneration. In the present study we found that the uterus of abortion mice showed different histo-morphological changes with the development of abortion. The expression of chemokine CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 in abortion uterus showed a time-dependent pattern. Compared with normal pregnancy, the expression of CXCL12 and CXCR4 did not change in the uterus of GD7 abortion mice, but increased significantly in the uterus of GD8 and GD10 abortion mice. However, the expression of IFN-gamma increased significantly in the uterus of GD7 abortion mice, while there was no significant change detected in GD8 aborted mice uterus. Our further data show that the expression of CXCL12 is not regulated by IFN-gamma in endometrial stromal cell culture system in vitro. The treatment of CXCL12 significantly inhibits the expression of IFN-gamma in in vitro cultured stromal cells and splenic monocytes. This suggests that CXCL12 may play an anti-inflammatory role in the uterus of abortion mice to promote the process of endometrial restoration after abortion, rather than participate in the process of abortion as a response molecule of IFN-gamma.
29521318	Ticagrelor	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Ticagrelor-induced acute kidney injury can increase serum concentration of statin and lead to concurrence of rhabdomyolysis.	
29227326	Hydroxyurea	Intracranial Hemorrhages	1	0	1	1	1.0	Sudden Intracranial Hemorrhage in a Patient With Atypical Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Chronic Phase.	A 16-year-old boy was incidentally found to have hyperleukocytosis during a school physical examination. He was diagnosed with atypical chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase. Although treatment with hydoxyurea was started, his white blood cell count increased and he eventually developed lethal intracranial hemorrhage. Although very rare, intracranial hemorrhage should be considered as a possible complication in patients with atypical chronic myeloid leukemia, even in chronic phase, if they have hyperleukocytosis and thrombocytopenia.
30677801	Sorafenib	Collagen Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Unusual eruption in association with sorafenib: a case of acquired perforating dermatosis, reactive perforating collagenosis type.	The term, acquired perforating dermatoses (APD), represents a group of skin conditions that develop in adulthood and are characterized by transepidermal elimination of dermal connective tissue. This appears clinically as a papulonodule with a keratotic core. Although APD is typically associated with diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure, and several other conditions causing generalized pruritus, there have been reports in the literature describing an association of APD with select drugs including sorafenib. We present a case of acquired perforating dermatosis in a patient with HIV and hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing treatment with sorafenib.
30677801	Sorafenib	Skin Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Unusual eruption in association with sorafenib: a case of acquired perforating dermatosis, reactive perforating collagenosis type.	The term, acquired perforating dermatoses (APD), represents a group of skin conditions that develop in adulthood and are characterized by transepidermal elimination of dermal connective tissue. This appears clinically as a papulonodule with a keratotic core. Although APD is typically associated with diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure, and several other conditions causing generalized pruritus, there have been reports in the literature describing an association of APD with select drugs including sorafenib. We present a case of acquired perforating dermatosis in a patient with HIV and hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing treatment with sorafenib.
30106000	Ibuprofen	Penile Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous Drug Reactions: typical and atypical cases of a distinctive drug reaction.	
30106000	Pseudoephedrine	Penile Diseases	1	0	0	0		Cutaneous Drug Reactions: typical and atypical cases of a distinctive drug reaction.	
30100558	Cilostazol	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		The safety of triple antiplatelet therapy under thromboelastography guidance in patients undergoing stenting for ischemic cerebrovascular disease.	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the safety of triple antiplatelet therapy (TAT) with cilostazol in patients undergoing stenting for extracranial and/or intracranial artery stenosis. METHODS: A prospectively collected database was reviewed to identify patients who underwent stenting for extracranial and/or intracranial artery stenosis and showed resistance to aspirin and/or clopidogrel as assessed by pre-stenting thromboelastography (TEG) testing. Patients were assigned to a TAT group and a dual antiplatelet therapy (DAT) group. Major complications were defined as thromboembolic events (transient ischemic attack (TIA), ischemic stroke, and stent thrombosis) or major bleeding events within 30 days, and minor complications were defined as extracranial bleeding that did not require vascular surgery or transfusion within 30 days. RESULTS: A total of 183 patients were identified. The incidence of major complications was significantly lower in the TAT group than in the DAT group (TAT group vs. DAT group, 1/110 vs. 6/73; P=0.017). TIAs occurred in four patients, with one in the TAT group and three in the DAT group (1/110 vs. 3/73; P=0.303). Ischemic strokes occurred in three patients in the DAT group (TAT group vs. DAT group, P=0.062). No major bleeding events or stent thrombosis was recorded in either group. Two patients (one in each group) experienced minor complications that resolved without additional treatment (1/110 vs. 1/73; P>0.999). CONCLUSIONS: TAT under TEG guidance appears to be a safe antiplatelet strategy in patients undergoing stenting for extracranial and/or intracranial artery stenosis. By employing TAT under TEG guidance, favorable outcomes can be achieved in these patients.
29976546	Adalimumab	Cicatrix	1	0	0	0		Persistent neutrophilic scarring alopecia triggered by anti-TNF blockade for Crohn's disease.	
29976546	Infliximab	Cicatrix	1	0	0	0		Persistent neutrophilic scarring alopecia triggered by anti-TNF blockade for Crohn's disease.	
29968917	Hydrochlorothiazide	Inflammation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Inflammation Due to Voriconazole-induced Photosensitivity Enhanced Skin Phototumorigenesis in Xpa-knockout Mice.	Voriconazole is an antifungal agent and used as a prophylactic measure, especially in immunocompromised patients. However, there have been several reports of its adverse reactions, namely photosensitivity with intense inflammatory rashes and subsequent skin cancer development. To assess the effects of photosensitizing drugs voriconazole and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) on the enhancement of UV-induced inflammatory responses and UV-induced tumorigenesis, we utilized Xpa-knockout mice, which is DNA repair-deficient and more susceptible to UV-induced inflammation and tumor development than wild-type mice. Administration of voriconazole prior to broadband UVB exposure significantly upregulated multiple inflammatory cytokines compared with the vehicle- or HCTZ-administered groups. Voriconazole administration along with chronic UVB exposure produced significantly higher number of skin tumors than HCTZ or vehicle in Xpa-knockout mice. Furthermore, the investigation of UVB-induced DNA damage using embryonic fibroblasts of Xpa-knockout mice revealed a significantly higher 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine level in cells treated with voriconazole N-oxide, a voriconazole-metabolite during UV exposure. The data suggest that voriconazole plus UVB-induced inflammatory response may be related to voriconazole-induced skin phototumorigenesis.
29439950	Oxaliplatin	Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic	1	0	0	0		Patients treated with oxaliplatin are at risk for thrombocytopenia caused by multiple drug-dependent antibodies.	
29315142	Rituximab	Encephalitis, Viral	1	1	1	1	1.0	Enteroviral Encephalitis in a Child With CNS Relapse of Burkitt Leukemia Treated With Rituximab.	A boy with central nervous system relapse of Burkitt leukemia developed fever and neurologic symptoms and cognitive impairment. He had received multi-drug chemotherapy including rituximab. Enterovirus (EV) was detected in cerebrospinal fluid by polymerase chain reaction, and magnetic resonance imaging findings were consistent with viral infection. The patient was treated with intravenous immunoglobulin and within 1 month cleared his EV. Rituximab can cause a profound B-cell deficiency predisposing patients to infections including EV encephalitis. This is the first report of enteroviral encephalitis in a child undergoing treatment for lymphoma with rituximab and suggests the need to watch for this complication of therapy.
29315142	Rituximab	Enterovirus Infections	1	1	1	1	1.0	Enteroviral Encephalitis in a Child With CNS Relapse of Burkitt Leukemia Treated With Rituximab.	A boy with central nervous system relapse of Burkitt leukemia developed fever and neurologic symptoms and cognitive impairment. He had received multi-drug chemotherapy including rituximab. Enterovirus (EV) was detected in cerebrospinal fluid by polymerase chain reaction, and magnetic resonance imaging findings were consistent with viral infection. The patient was treated with intravenous immunoglobulin and within 1 month cleared his EV. Rituximab can cause a profound B-cell deficiency predisposing patients to infections including EV encephalitis. This is the first report of enteroviral encephalitis in a child undergoing treatment for lymphoma with rituximab and suggests the need to watch for this complication of therapy.
29294026	Darunavir	Mental Disorders	1	0	0	0		Serious neuropsychiatric adverse effects related to interaction between itraconazole and darunavir/ritonavir in an HIV-infected patient with cerebral histoplasmosis.	
29294026	Itraconazole	Mental Disorders	1	0	0	0		Serious neuropsychiatric adverse effects related to interaction between itraconazole and darunavir/ritonavir in an HIV-infected patient with cerebral histoplasmosis.	
28675460	Heparin	Long Term Adverse Effects	0	0	0	0		Real-life Use of Anticoagulants in Venous Thromboembolism With a Focus on Patients With Exclusion Criteria for Direct Oral Anticoagulants.	We assessed the real-life use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) in patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE) and exclusion criteria for randomized trials. From 2013 to 2016, 3,578 of 18,853 patients (19%) had exclusion criteria. Irrespective of which anticoagulant was chosen, they had more VTE recurrences (hazard ratio (HR): 3.10; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.47-3.88), major bleeds (HR: 4.10; 95% CI: 3.38-4.96), and deaths (HR: 9.47; 95% CI: 8.46-10.6) than those without exclusion criteria. During initial therapy, no patient with exclusion criteria on DOACs (n = 115) recurred, but those on rivaroxaban bled less often (adjusted HR: 0.18; 95% CI: 0.04-0.79) than those on unfractionated heparin (n = 224) and similar to those (n = 3,172) on low-molecular-weight (LMWH) heparin. For long-term therapy, patients on rivaroxaban (n = 151) had nonsignificantly fewer VTE recurrences (adjusted HR: 0.74; 95% CI: 0.08-1.32) and major bleeds (adjusted HR: 0.41; 95% CI: 0.15-1.15) than those on LMWH (n = 2,071). The efficacy and safety of DOACs were similar to standard therapy.
28675460	Rivaroxaban	Long Term Adverse Effects	0	0	0	0		Real-life Use of Anticoagulants in Venous Thromboembolism With a Focus on Patients With Exclusion Criteria for Direct Oral Anticoagulants.	We assessed the real-life use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) in patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE) and exclusion criteria for randomized trials. From 2013 to 2016, 3,578 of 18,853 patients (19%) had exclusion criteria. Irrespective of which anticoagulant was chosen, they had more VTE recurrences (hazard ratio (HR): 3.10; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.47-3.88), major bleeds (HR: 4.10; 95% CI: 3.38-4.96), and deaths (HR: 9.47; 95% CI: 8.46-10.6) than those without exclusion criteria. During initial therapy, no patient with exclusion criteria on DOACs (n = 115) recurred, but those on rivaroxaban bled less often (adjusted HR: 0.18; 95% CI: 0.04-0.79) than those on unfractionated heparin (n = 224) and similar to those (n = 3,172) on low-molecular-weight (LMWH) heparin. For long-term therapy, patients on rivaroxaban (n = 151) had nonsignificantly fewer VTE recurrences (adjusted HR: 0.74; 95% CI: 0.08-1.32) and major bleeds (adjusted HR: 0.41; 95% CI: 0.15-1.15) than those on LMWH (n = 2,071). The efficacy and safety of DOACs were similar to standard therapy.
31037185	Tamoxifen	Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse	0	1	0	1		A diffuse large B cell lymphoma emerging with breast cancer relapse.	The prevalence of secondary cancers associated with the breast cancer treatment has increased, which is due to the administration of cytotoxic/hormonal drugs as well as radiotherapy. A 54-year-old female patient with a history of breast cancer for 4 years and receiving tamoxifen the hematology clinic with fatigue and nosebleed. Laboratory parameters were revealed pancytopenia. The bone marrow biopsy finding was compatible with CD20 positive high-grade B cell lymphoma resembling diffuse large B cell lymphoma. The patient started to receive a chemotherapy. Her hemogram values displayed an improvement after the second cycle. However, interim PET-BT, performed after the fourth cycle, showed an incomplete response in cervical lymphatic nodes. Then, a tru-cut biopsy was performed resulting in breast cancer metastasis. This is an unusual case of secondary-DLBCL presenting with pancytopenia and occuring 4 years after the diagnosis of breast cancer. In conclusion, clinicians should carefully set the dosage of chemotherapy drugs to avoid the long-term side effects associated with such drugs.
30624172	Indigo Carmine	Tooth Diseases	0	0	0	0		[Indigo carmine related tooth discolouration. Excipients: a pending subject].	
30194278	Sertraline	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sertraline-Induced Rhabdomyolysis, Trismus, and Cardiac Arrest in a Child.	Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are a commonly used and often effective class of medications in the treatment of mood disorders such as anxiety and depression. Sertraline (1S,4S-N-methyl-4-[3,4-dichlorophenyl]-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-naphthylamine [Zoloft; Pfizer, New York City, NY]) is a frequently used selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor that has shown efficacy in children, adolescents, and adults. We report the case of a 13-year-old boy with sertraline-induced rhabdomyolysis and renal failure, trismus, and cardiopulmonary arrest. Pharmacogenetic testing later revealed our patient had serotonin transporter polymorphisms and enzymatic alterations that put him at risk for increased levels of sertraline and greater likelihood for untoward side effects.
31081835	Amphetamine	Bruxism	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Series: Medicaments and oral healthcare. Medicaments and addictive substances, potentially inducing or ameliorating bruxism].	Bruxism is described as a repetitive jaw-muscle activity characterised by clenching or grinding of the teeth and/or by bracing or thrusting of the mandible. This article provides an inventory of medications registered in the Netherlands and of addictive substances reported to potentially induce or aggravate bruxism as an adverse effect, and of medications registered in the Netherlands reported to potentially ameliorate existing bruxism. Groups of medications known as having the potential adverse effect of bruxism are amphetamines, anticonvulsants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Separate medicaments found in the scientific literature, having this potential are aripiprazole, atomoxetine, duloxetine, flecainide, ketotifen and methadone. Addictive substances with bruxism as potential adverse effect are alcohol, heroin, methamphetamine, methylenedioxymethamphetamine, nicotine and piperazines. Medications with the potential to ameliorate existing bruxism are botulinum toxin A, bromocriptine, buspirone, clonazepam, clonidine, gabapentin and levodopa.
31045772	Morphine	Spinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Intrathecal morphine combined with ropivacaine induces spinal myoclonus in cancer patients with an implanted intrathecal drug delivery system: Three case reports.	RATIONALE: Although intrathecal opioid infusion has been used for decades for the treatment of severe pain, myoclonus as one of the complications of this therapeutic modality is now beginning to be recognized more. PATIENTS CONCERNS: Here, we report three patients who developed myoclonus after dose adjustment in intrathecal drug delivery system for the treatment of refractory cancer pain. DIAGNOSIS: Spinal myoclonus is a sudden, brief, shock-like muscle contractions originating from the central nervous system. In our cases, it occurred after opioid administration via intrathecal delivery system with no abnormality found in laboratory or imaging examinations. INTERVENTIONS: Spinal myoclonus can be treated effectively by reducing the dose or infusion rate as described in case 1, or changing from an intrathecal to systemic administration in case 2, or correcting infusion and bolus parameters mistakes in case 3. OUTCOMES: All patients recovered quickly after stopping or decreasing the intrathecal drug infusion. LESSONS: Prevention is more important than treatment as for spinal myoclonus. Pain management teams should be aware of this distressing complication. Dose of intrathecal drugs should not exceed the recommended maximal daily doses by guidelines and patient education is important for successful intrathecal analgesic therapy.
31045772	Ropivacaine	Myoclonus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Intrathecal morphine combined with ropivacaine induces spinal myoclonus in cancer patients with an implanted intrathecal drug delivery system: Three case reports.	RATIONALE: Although intrathecal opioid infusion has been used for decades for the treatment of severe pain, myoclonus as one of the complications of this therapeutic modality is now beginning to be recognized more. PATIENTS CONCERNS: Here, we report three patients who developed myoclonus after dose adjustment in intrathecal drug delivery system for the treatment of refractory cancer pain. DIAGNOSIS: Spinal myoclonus is a sudden, brief, shock-like muscle contractions originating from the central nervous system. In our cases, it occurred after opioid administration via intrathecal delivery system with no abnormality found in laboratory or imaging examinations. INTERVENTIONS: Spinal myoclonus can be treated effectively by reducing the dose or infusion rate as described in case 1, or changing from an intrathecal to systemic administration in case 2, or correcting infusion and bolus parameters mistakes in case 3. OUTCOMES: All patients recovered quickly after stopping or decreasing the intrathecal drug infusion. LESSONS: Prevention is more important than treatment as for spinal myoclonus. Pain management teams should be aware of this distressing complication. Dose of intrathecal drugs should not exceed the recommended maximal daily doses by guidelines and patient education is important for successful intrathecal analgesic therapy.
31045772	Ropivacaine	Spinal Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Intrathecal morphine combined with ropivacaine induces spinal myoclonus in cancer patients with an implanted intrathecal drug delivery system: Three case reports.	RATIONALE: Although intrathecal opioid infusion has been used for decades for the treatment of severe pain, myoclonus as one of the complications of this therapeutic modality is now beginning to be recognized more. PATIENTS CONCERNS: Here, we report three patients who developed myoclonus after dose adjustment in intrathecal drug delivery system for the treatment of refractory cancer pain. DIAGNOSIS: Spinal myoclonus is a sudden, brief, shock-like muscle contractions originating from the central nervous system. In our cases, it occurred after opioid administration via intrathecal delivery system with no abnormality found in laboratory or imaging examinations. INTERVENTIONS: Spinal myoclonus can be treated effectively by reducing the dose or infusion rate as described in case 1, or changing from an intrathecal to systemic administration in case 2, or correcting infusion and bolus parameters mistakes in case 3. OUTCOMES: All patients recovered quickly after stopping or decreasing the intrathecal drug infusion. LESSONS: Prevention is more important than treatment as for spinal myoclonus. Pain management teams should be aware of this distressing complication. Dose of intrathecal drugs should not exceed the recommended maximal daily doses by guidelines and patient education is important for successful intrathecal analgesic therapy.
30998433	Testosterone	Heart Diseases	1	0	0	0		An update on heart disease risk associated with testosterone boosting medications.	INTRODUCTION: The cardiovascular (CV) safety of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) remains a crucial issue in the management of subjects with late-onset hypogonadism. The authors systematically reviewed and discussed the available evidence focusing our analysis on heart-related issues. AREAS COVERED: All the available data from prospective observational studies evaluating the role endogenous T levels on the risk of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) were collected and analyzed. In addition, the impact of TRT on heart-related diseases, as derived from pharmaco-epidemiological studies as well as from randomized placebo-controlled trials (RCTs), was also investigated. EXPERT OPINION: Available evidence indicates that endogenous low T represents a risk factor of AMI incidence and its related mortality. TRT in hypogonadal patients is able to improve angina symptoms in subjects with ischemic heart diseases and exercise ability in patients with heart failure (HF). In addition, when prescribed according to the recommended dosage, TRT does not increase the risk of heart-related events.
30576386	Ribavirin	Atherosclerosis	0	0	0	0		Liver steatosis and dyslipidemia after HCV eradication by direct acting antiviral agents are synergistic risks of atherosclerosis.	AIM: We comprehensively analyzed how hepatitis C virus (HCV) eradication by interferon (IFN)-free direct-acting-antiviral-agents (DAAs) affects liver steatosis and atherogenic risk. METHODS: Patients treated with IFN-free-DAAs who underwent transient elastography before and at 24-weeks post-treatment, including controlled attenuation parameter (CAP), and achieved sustained viral response (SVR) were enrolled. The association between changes in liver steatosis, lipid-metabolism, and genetic and clinical factors was analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 117 patients were included. The mean CAP and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels were significantly elevated at SVR24. However, baseline LDL-C and CAP values were significantly negatively correlated with changes in these values after HCV eradication, indicating that in patients with high baseline values, the values generally decreased after HCV eradication. Mean small-dense LDL-C (sdLDL-C), which has greater atherogenic potential, was significantly elevated only in patients with both dyslipidemia (LDL-C >140 mg/dL) and liver steatosis (CAP >248 dB/m) at SVR24. Those patients had significant higher baseline BMI, LDL-C, and total-cholesterol levels. CONCLUSIONS: Generally, successful HCV eradication by IFN-free-DAAs decreases CAP and LDL-C in patients with high baseline values. However, elevated LDL-C was accompanied with elevated sdLDL-C only in patients with liver steatosis and dyslipidemia at SVR24; therefore, those patients may require closer monitoring.
29846340	Polidocanol	Edema	1	0	0	0		Subcutaneous Injection of Large Volumes of Polidocanol.	
29846340	Polidocanol	Pain	1	0	0	0		Subcutaneous Injection of Large Volumes of Polidocanol.	
29570101	Carboplatin	Venous Thromboembolism	0	1	0	0		Venous thromboembolic events in patients with lung cancer treated with cisplatin-based versus carboplatin/nedaplatin-based chemotherapy.	An association between chemotherapy and venous thromboembolic events (VTEs) in patients with cancer is well established, with cisplatin (CDDP) being one of the most well-studied risk factors. However, whether CDDP is more strongly associated with occurrence of VTEs than carboplatin (CBDCA) or nedaplatin (CDGP) is controversial. Our purposes were to characterize patients with lung cancer and in-hospital VTEs, identify risk factors associated with VTEs, and compare the risks associated with CDDP-based versus CBDCA/CDGP-based chemotherapy. We retrospectively identified patients with lung cancer who underwent platinum-based chemotherapy from April 2012 to March 2015 from a national inpatient database in Japan. We used multivariable logistic regression analysis to analyze associations between various factors, including chemotherapy regimens and VTE. Of 235 104 eligible patients, 675 (0.29%) had VTEs after receiving platinum-based chemotherapy while hospitalized. Multivariable analysis showed that age, activity of daily living index, and invasive medical procedures were significant risk factors for the occurrence of VTE. Furthermore, CDDP-based chemotherapy was associated with a higher rate of VTE than CBDCA/CDGP-based chemotherapy (adjusted odds ratio: 1.35; 95% confidence interval: 1.08-1.68; P<0.01). In conclusion, CDDP-based chemotherapy is a stronger risk factor for VTEs than CBDCA/CDGP-based chemotherapy in patients with lung cancer.
30717287	Olanzapine	Hyperglycemia	0	1	0	0		Olanzapine Induced Dysmetabolic Changes Involving Tissue Chromium Mobilization in Female Rats.	Atypical antipsychotics, such as olanzapine, are commonly prescribed to patients with schizophrenic symptoms and other psychiatric disorders. However, weight gain and metabolic disturbance cause adverse effects, impair patient compliance and limit clinical utility. Thus, a better understanding of treatment-acquired adverse effects and identification of targets for therapeutic intervention are believed to offer more clinical benefits for patients with schizophrenia. Beyond its nutritional effects, studies have indicated that supplementation of chromium brings about beneficial outcomes against numerous metabolic disorders. In this study, we investigated whether olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance involved chromium dynamic mobilization in a female Sprague-Dawley rat model, and whether a dietary supplement of chromium improved olanzapine-acquired adverse effects. Olanzapine medicated rats experienced weight gain and adiposity, as well as the development of hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, and inflammation. The olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance was accompanied by a decrease in hepatic Akt and AMP-activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) actions, as well as an increase in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6), along with tissue chromium depletion. A daily intake of chromium supplements increased tissue chromium levels and thermogenic uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) expression in white adipose tissues, as well as improved both post-olanzapine weight gain and metabolic disturbance. Our findings suggest that olanzapine medicated rats showed a disturbance of tissue chromium homeostasis by inducing tissue depletion and urinary excretion. This loss may be an alternative mechanism responsible for olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance.
30717287	Olanzapine	Hyperinsulinism	0	1	0	0		Olanzapine Induced Dysmetabolic Changes Involving Tissue Chromium Mobilization in Female Rats.	Atypical antipsychotics, such as olanzapine, are commonly prescribed to patients with schizophrenic symptoms and other psychiatric disorders. However, weight gain and metabolic disturbance cause adverse effects, impair patient compliance and limit clinical utility. Thus, a better understanding of treatment-acquired adverse effects and identification of targets for therapeutic intervention are believed to offer more clinical benefits for patients with schizophrenia. Beyond its nutritional effects, studies have indicated that supplementation of chromium brings about beneficial outcomes against numerous metabolic disorders. In this study, we investigated whether olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance involved chromium dynamic mobilization in a female Sprague-Dawley rat model, and whether a dietary supplement of chromium improved olanzapine-acquired adverse effects. Olanzapine medicated rats experienced weight gain and adiposity, as well as the development of hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, and inflammation. The olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance was accompanied by a decrease in hepatic Akt and AMP-activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) actions, as well as an increase in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6), along with tissue chromium depletion. A daily intake of chromium supplements increased tissue chromium levels and thermogenic uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) expression in white adipose tissues, as well as improved both post-olanzapine weight gain and metabolic disturbance. Our findings suggest that olanzapine medicated rats showed a disturbance of tissue chromium homeostasis by inducing tissue depletion and urinary excretion. This loss may be an alternative mechanism responsible for olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance.
30717287	Olanzapine	Hyperlipidemias	0	1	0	0		Olanzapine Induced Dysmetabolic Changes Involving Tissue Chromium Mobilization in Female Rats.	Atypical antipsychotics, such as olanzapine, are commonly prescribed to patients with schizophrenic symptoms and other psychiatric disorders. However, weight gain and metabolic disturbance cause adverse effects, impair patient compliance and limit clinical utility. Thus, a better understanding of treatment-acquired adverse effects and identification of targets for therapeutic intervention are believed to offer more clinical benefits for patients with schizophrenia. Beyond its nutritional effects, studies have indicated that supplementation of chromium brings about beneficial outcomes against numerous metabolic disorders. In this study, we investigated whether olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance involved chromium dynamic mobilization in a female Sprague-Dawley rat model, and whether a dietary supplement of chromium improved olanzapine-acquired adverse effects. Olanzapine medicated rats experienced weight gain and adiposity, as well as the development of hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, and inflammation. The olanzapine-induced metabolic disturbance was accompanied by a decrease in hepatic Akt and AMP-activated Protein Kinase (AMPK) actions, as well as an increase in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6), along with tissue chromium depletion. A daily intake of chromium supplements increased tissue chromium levels and thermogenic uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) expression in white adipose tissues, as well as improved both post-olanzapine weight gain and metabolic disturbance. Our findings suggest that olanzapine medicated rats showed a disturbance of tissue chromium homeostasis by inducing tissue depletion and urinary excretion. This loss may be an alternative mechanism responsible for olanzapine-induced weight gain and metabolic disturbance.
30250236	Collagen	Corneal Opacity	1	0	0	0		Localised corneal haze and scarring following pulsed accelerated collagen cross-linking for keratoconus.	
28720309	Chloroquine	Nail Diseases	1	0	0	0		Chloroquine-induced oral mucosal hyperpigmentation and nail dyschromia.	
31083204	Bleomycin	Liver Failure	1	1	0	0	1.0	Interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma of the spleen with hepatic failure after chemotherapy: A case report.	RATIONALE: Interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma (IDCS) is an extremely rare disease originating from dendritic cells (DCs). There are few cases report interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma of spleen along with their pathological characteristics and treatment. PATIENT CONCERNS: Here we report a case of IDCS in 53-year-old female who presented spleen enlargement and thrombocytopenia. DIAGNOSES: The patient underwent surgical resection of spleen, and the pathology confirmed IDCS. INTERVENTIONS: She received surgical resection of spleen and one cycle of chemotherapy (ABVD with ifosfamide and oxaliplatin) after surgery. OUTCOMES: She died of severe hepatic failure caused by chemotherapy. DISCUSSION: IDCS is a rare disease with insufficient treatment guidelines. We adopted chemotherapy of ABVD with ifosfamide and oxaliplatin which showed no improvement but led to life-threatening liver damage.
31083204	Vinblastine	Liver Failure	1	1	0	0	1.0	Interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma of the spleen with hepatic failure after chemotherapy: A case report.	RATIONALE: Interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma (IDCS) is an extremely rare disease originating from dendritic cells (DCs). There are few cases report interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma of spleen along with their pathological characteristics and treatment. PATIENT CONCERNS: Here we report a case of IDCS in 53-year-old female who presented spleen enlargement and thrombocytopenia. DIAGNOSES: The patient underwent surgical resection of spleen, and the pathology confirmed IDCS. INTERVENTIONS: She received surgical resection of spleen and one cycle of chemotherapy (ABVD with ifosfamide and oxaliplatin) after surgery. OUTCOMES: She died of severe hepatic failure caused by chemotherapy. DISCUSSION: IDCS is a rare disease with insufficient treatment guidelines. We adopted chemotherapy of ABVD with ifosfamide and oxaliplatin which showed no improvement but led to life-threatening liver damage.
30869295	Trastuzumab	Dyspnea	1	0	0	0		[Acute dyspnea after trastuzumab-treated breast cancer].	
30755423	Vitamin D	Seizures	1	1	0	0	1.0	Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome due to hypercalcaemia: a rare cause.	Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is a clinico-radiological entity described by Hinchey et al in late 90's, characterised by variable associations of seizure activity, consciousness impairment ranging from confusion to coma, headaches, visual abnormalities, nausea/vomiting and focal neurological signs. Common causes are accelerated hypertension, eclampsia, preeclampsia, cytotoxic drug use and autoimmune diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus.We report a case of PRES in a 62-year-old female patient due to hypercalcemia secondary to vitamin D toxicity on treatment with calcium supplements and vitamin D for secondary hypoparathyroidism. She had seizures and visual defects on presentation which recovered completely with treatment of hypercalcemia.
30755423	Vitamin D	Vision Disorders	1	1	0	0	1.0	Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome due to hypercalcaemia: a rare cause.	Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is a clinico-radiological entity described by Hinchey et al in late 90's, characterised by variable associations of seizure activity, consciousness impairment ranging from confusion to coma, headaches, visual abnormalities, nausea/vomiting and focal neurological signs. Common causes are accelerated hypertension, eclampsia, preeclampsia, cytotoxic drug use and autoimmune diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus.We report a case of PRES in a 62-year-old female patient due to hypercalcemia secondary to vitamin D toxicity on treatment with calcium supplements and vitamin D for secondary hypoparathyroidism. She had seizures and visual defects on presentation which recovered completely with treatment of hypercalcemia.
30316977	Insulin	Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung	0	0	0	0		Oncogenic activity of insulin in the development of NSCLC: What is there behind the scenes?	
30234475	Mycophenolic Acid	Status Epilepticus	1	0	0	0		Mycophenolate Mofetil-Induced Status Epilepticus.	
29873529	Aprepitant	Dyspnea	0	0	0	0		Safety of HTX-019 (intravenous aprepitant) and fosaprepitant in healthy subjects.	AIM: Evaluate safety of HTX-019, a novel polysorbate 80- and synthetic surfactant-free intravenous formulation of neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist aprepitant for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. METHODS: Two open-label, randomized, two-way crossover studies evaluated treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) in 200 healthy subjects. Subjects received HTX-019 130 mg (30-min infusion) and fosaprepitant 150 mg (20- or 30-min infusion), with >/=7-day washout between doses. RESULTS: Less than or equal to 30 min after start of infusion, TEAEs occurred in 5 (3%) HTX-019 and 30 (15%) fosaprepitant recipients. No HTX-019 recipients had infusion-site adverse events, versus 15 (8%) fosaprepitant recipients. Treatment-related dyspnea occurred in one HTX-019 and six fosaprepitant recipients. No severe/serious TEAEs occurred; all TEAEs resolved. CONCLUSION: HTX-019 may provide a safer aprepitant formulation than fosaprepitant for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting prevention.
29775236	Polyethylene Glycols	Brain Diseases, Metabolic	1	0	0	0		Pegylated asparaginase as cause of fatal hyperammonemia in patients with latent urea cycle disorder.	
29424197	Pregabalin	Atrioventricular Block	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pregabalin-induced first degree atrioventricular block in a young patient treated for pain from extrapulmonary tuberculosis.	Pregabalin, widely used in the treatment of several pain disorders, is usually well tolerated. Uncommonly, the drug may induce cardiac side effects, rarely prolongation of the PR interval. The latter has never been described in patients with healthy heart or normal renal function. We characterize a unique case of a young man with extrapulmonary tuberculosis and no detectable or known cardiac or kidney diseases, treated with pregabalin to control the severe pain due to the involvement of the spinal cord by the tuberculosis, showing an atrioventricular (AV) block due to pregabalin administration. The reported case emphasizes the need of monitoring PR interval during treatment with pregabalin, even in patients without background of cardiac or renal diseases.
29316372	Imatinib Mesylate	Leukopenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Can therapeutic drug monitoring increase the safety of Imatinib in GIST patients?	Imatinib at 400 mg daily is the standard treatment for patients affected with CML and GIST. The intervariability in plasma concentration is very significant. In many reports, a good therapeutic effect is attributed to an adequate concentration of Imatinib. However, few studies have been conducted to investigate the association between plasma concentration and side effects. Besides, no upper concentration limit of Imatinib plasma concentration detection has been established. The correlation of Imatinib trough concentrations (C(min) ) with adverse effects (AEs) was described here. Plasma samples were obtained from patients after 3 months treatment with Imatinib (steady state, n = 122). Liquid chromatography/ tandem mass spectrometry was used to determine the concentration of Imatinib and its metabolite NDI. The incidence of myelosuppression was increased significantly with the increased Imatinib trough plasma concentration. The plasma level of Imatinib and NDI in patients who developed myelosuppression are 1698.3 +/- 598.6 ng/mL and 242.1 ng/mL, respectively, which were significantly higher than those in patients who did not (1327.2 +/- 623.4 ng/mL, P = 1.75 x 10(-4) ; 206.3 ng/mL, P = 0.006). Estimated exposure thresholds of Imatinib and NDI were 1451.6 ng/mL with ROC(AUC) (95%CI) of 0.693 (0.597-0.789) and 207.1 ng/mL with ROC(AUC) (95%CI) of 0.646 (0.546-0.745), respectively. Multivariate regression confirmed the correlation of Imatinib C(min) with myelosuppression. Other side effects such as fluid retention and rash were not found to be correlated with Imatinib concentrations. These results suggest that trough concentration of Imatinib should be taken into consideration to increase the safety of Imatinib therapy in GIST patients.
28791698	Fenoterol	Metabolic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Increased Systemic Exposure and Stronger Cardiovascular and Metabolic Adverse Reactions to Fenoterol in Individuals with Heritable OCT1 Deficiency.	Fenoterol is a widely used anti-asthmatic and tocolytic agent, but high plasma concentrations of fenoterol may lead to severe and even fatal adverse reactions. We studied whether heritable deficiency of the liver organic cation transporter 1 (OCT1), a trait observed in 3% of Europeans and white Americans, affects fenoterol plasma concentrations and toxicity. OCT1 transported fenoterol with high affinity, and OCT1 inhibition in human hepatocytes reduced fenoterol uptake threefold. After administration of 180 microg of fenoterol to 39 healthy individuals, the OCT1-deficient individuals (zero active OCT1 alleles; n = 5) showed 1.9-fold greater systemic fenoterol exposure (P = 4.0 x 10(-5) ) and 1.7-fold lower volume of distribution (P = 8.0 x 10(-5) ). Correspondingly, the OCT1-deficient individuals had a 1.5-fold stronger increase in heart rate (P = 0.002), a 3.4-fold greater increase in blood glucose (P = 3.0 x 10(-5) ), and significantly lower serum potassium levels. In conclusion, heritable OCT1 deficiency significantly increases plasma concentrations of fenoterol and may be an important factor underlying the excess mortality associated with fenoterol.
30677858	Vemurafenib	Acneiform Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reaccion acneiforme noduloquistica secundaria a vemurafenib con buena respuesta a isotretinoina oralSevere acneiform eruption associated with vemurafenib with response to isotretinoin.	Vemurafenib, a kinase inhibitor that targets tumors with the BRAF V600E mutation, is a promising option for unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Cutaneous side-effects have been reported including alopecia, photosensitivity, squamous cell carcinoma, keratoacanthomas, keratosis pilaris-like eruption, and palmoplantar hyperkeratosis. Acneiform eruptions have been reported in 3%-6% of the patients treated with BRAF inhibitors,and 5 cases are described in the literature. Although they responded well to topical therapies, oral antibiotics, or observation, one case required oral etretinate and the withdrawal of vemurafenib because the adverse event reached grade 3. We report one case of a severe acneiform eruption associated with vemurafenib with a good response to isotretinoin allowing continuation of the BRAF inhibitor.
30635887	Amoxicillin	Dysgeusia	0	0	0	0		Comparison between  daily single-dose triple therapy and conventional triple therapy on patient compliance and Helicobacter pylori eradication: A randomized controlled  trial.	OBJECTIVE: The poor compliance to treatment of Helicobacter pylori-infected patients is well-known. We evaluated the efficacy of daily single-dose triple therapy as compared to conventional triple therapy on patient compliance and eradication of H. pylori infection. METHODS: In the study group, 105 patients received esomeprazole 40 mg, tinidazole 1 g, and levofloxacin 500 mg once-daily for 14 days. One hundred and seven patients in the control group received lansoprazole 30 mg, amoxicillin 1 g, and clarithromycin 500 mg twice-daily for 14 days. Four weeks after completing therapy, urea breath test was performed to assess the eradication of H. pylori infection. RESULTS: The eradication rates by intention-to-treat analysis were 86% and 90.2% and by per-protocol analyses were 90.5% and 95.3% in the control and study groups, respectively, with no significant differences. Drug compliance was significantly better in the study group compared to the control group (p = 0.04). Overall, 44.7% of the patients in the study and 47.6% in the control groups had at least one adverse event. The most common adverse event was the dysgeusia in both the groups. The occurrence of diarrhea, nausea and vomiting was significantly higher in the control group and that of arthralgia was higher in the study group. The presence of periodontal disease and drug compliance was independently associated with treatment failure. CONCLUSION: The use of single-dose PPI-based triple therapy improves drug compliance and eradication rate to standard PPI-based triple therapy. Presence of periodontal disease and drug compliance had negative influence on the eradication rate. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02711176 ᅟ ᅟ.
30635887	Clarithromycin	Dysgeusia	0	0	0	0		Comparison between  daily single-dose triple therapy and conventional triple therapy on patient compliance and Helicobacter pylori eradication: A randomized controlled  trial.	OBJECTIVE: The poor compliance to treatment of Helicobacter pylori-infected patients is well-known. We evaluated the efficacy of daily single-dose triple therapy as compared to conventional triple therapy on patient compliance and eradication of H. pylori infection. METHODS: In the study group, 105 patients received esomeprazole 40 mg, tinidazole 1 g, and levofloxacin 500 mg once-daily for 14 days. One hundred and seven patients in the control group received lansoprazole 30 mg, amoxicillin 1 g, and clarithromycin 500 mg twice-daily for 14 days. Four weeks after completing therapy, urea breath test was performed to assess the eradication of H. pylori infection. RESULTS: The eradication rates by intention-to-treat analysis were 86% and 90.2% and by per-protocol analyses were 90.5% and 95.3% in the control and study groups, respectively, with no significant differences. Drug compliance was significantly better in the study group compared to the control group (p = 0.04). Overall, 44.7% of the patients in the study and 47.6% in the control groups had at least one adverse event. The most common adverse event was the dysgeusia in both the groups. The occurrence of diarrhea, nausea and vomiting was significantly higher in the control group and that of arthralgia was higher in the study group. The presence of periodontal disease and drug compliance was independently associated with treatment failure. CONCLUSION: The use of single-dose PPI-based triple therapy improves drug compliance and eradication rate to standard PPI-based triple therapy. Presence of periodontal disease and drug compliance had negative influence on the eradication rate. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02711176 ᅟ ᅟ.
30154038	Lansoprazole	Hyponatremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Associations of proton pump inhibitors and hospitalization due to hyponatremia: A population-based case-control study.	BACKGROUND: Small observational studies and case reports have indicated that proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may cause hyponatremia. Whether there is a difference between the individual PPIs is yet unknown. Since PPIs are one of the most commonly prescribed groups of drugs, even a rare adverse reaction may have large implications. The objective was to study the association between PPIs and hospitalization due to hyponatremia. METHODS: This register-based case-control study was based on the general Swedish population. Patients hospitalized with a principal diagnosis of hyponatremia (n = 14,359) were compared to matched controls (n = 57,383). The association between newly initiated (</=90 days) and ongoing PPI use was explored using multivariable logistic regression adjusting for concomitant drugs, medical conditions, previous hospitalizations and socioeconomic factors. RESULTS: Adjusted ORs (95%CI) for hospitalization due to hyponatremia, compared to controls, were for newly initiated: omeprazole 2.67 (2.37-3.01); pantoprazole 2.06 (1.32-3.19); lansoprazole 1.19 (0.72-1.94); esomeprazole 2.89 (2.21-3.79) and any PPI 2.78 (2.48-3.11). Only one individual had been newly initiated on rabeprazole and had been hospitalized due to hyponatremia. Adjusted ORs (95%CI) for individuals with ongoing treatment were for: omeprazole 1.04 (0.97-1.11); pantoprazole 0.81 (0.62-1.05); lansoprazole 0.90 (0.70-1.15); rabeprazole 3.34 (0.84-11.43); esomeprazole 1.12 (0.94-1.33) and any PPI 1.04 (0.98-1.11). CONCLUSIONS: With the exception of lansoprazole, this study suggests an association between any newly initiated PPI-treatment and hospitalization due to hyponatremia. Ongoing PPI use was not associated with an increased risk.
30154038	Pantoprazole	Hyponatremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Associations of proton pump inhibitors and hospitalization due to hyponatremia: A population-based case-control study.	BACKGROUND: Small observational studies and case reports have indicated that proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may cause hyponatremia. Whether there is a difference between the individual PPIs is yet unknown. Since PPIs are one of the most commonly prescribed groups of drugs, even a rare adverse reaction may have large implications. The objective was to study the association between PPIs and hospitalization due to hyponatremia. METHODS: This register-based case-control study was based on the general Swedish population. Patients hospitalized with a principal diagnosis of hyponatremia (n = 14,359) were compared to matched controls (n = 57,383). The association between newly initiated (</=90 days) and ongoing PPI use was explored using multivariable logistic regression adjusting for concomitant drugs, medical conditions, previous hospitalizations and socioeconomic factors. RESULTS: Adjusted ORs (95%CI) for hospitalization due to hyponatremia, compared to controls, were for newly initiated: omeprazole 2.67 (2.37-3.01); pantoprazole 2.06 (1.32-3.19); lansoprazole 1.19 (0.72-1.94); esomeprazole 2.89 (2.21-3.79) and any PPI 2.78 (2.48-3.11). Only one individual had been newly initiated on rabeprazole and had been hospitalized due to hyponatremia. Adjusted ORs (95%CI) for individuals with ongoing treatment were for: omeprazole 1.04 (0.97-1.11); pantoprazole 0.81 (0.62-1.05); lansoprazole 0.90 (0.70-1.15); rabeprazole 3.34 (0.84-11.43); esomeprazole 1.12 (0.94-1.33) and any PPI 1.04 (0.98-1.11). CONCLUSIONS: With the exception of lansoprazole, this study suggests an association between any newly initiated PPI-treatment and hospitalization due to hyponatremia. Ongoing PPI use was not associated with an increased risk.
29455187	Edetic Acid	Leukopenia	1	0	0	0		Detection of EDTA-induced pseudo-leukopenia using automated hematology analyzer with VCS technology.	
30372789	Olanzapine	Ketosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Olanzapine-Induced Fatal Ketoacidosis with Pneumomediastinum and Subcutaneous Emphysema.	We report a case of fatal olanzapine-induced ketoacidosis in which pneumomediastinum (PM) and subcutaneous emphysema (SE) were detected on postmortem computed tomographic (CT) images. A man in his forties was found in a state of cardiopulmonary arrest with profuse perspiration, and 50 empty capsules of olanzapine (10 mg) and flunitrazepam (1 mg) were found in his room. The major findings of postmortem CT prior to autopsy were PM and SE from the lower half of the face to the height of the first rib. The results of autopsy, biochemical tests, and toxicological analyses indicated the cause of death to be fatal ketoacidosis induced by olanzapine intoxication. No injuries, medical interventions, or particular diseases were evident, suggesting that PM and SE were caused by ketoacidosis. Our findings indicated that toxicological analyses should be performed when PM and SE are detected on CT images.
30689189	Lamotrigine	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse Cutaneous Drug Reactions Associated with Old- and New- Generation Antiepileptic Drugs Using the Japanese Pharmacovigilance Database.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Adverse cutaneous drug reactions associated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are a serious problem in the clinical setting. New-generation AEDs have been reported to be better tolerated than old-generation forms; however, information about the risks of adverse cutaneous drug reactions to new-generation AEDs is limited. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to clarify the association of AEDs with adverse cutaneous drug reactions using a spontaneous reporting database. METHODS: We performed a retrospective pharmacovigilance disproportionality analysis using the Japanese Adverse Drug Event Report (JADER) database. Adverse event reports submitted to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency between April 2004 and January 2017 were analyzed. Based on reports of all adverse events, we obtained 4805 reports of adverse cutaneous drug reactions associated with AEDs, and calculated the reporting odds ratio (ROR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for drug rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). RESULTS: Individual AEDs had variable signals for drug rash, SJS, and TEN. The strongest signals were detected for drug rash caused by lamotrigine (ROR 9.18, 95% CI 8.65-9.74), SJS caused by zonisamide (ROR 9.85, 95% CI 8.23-11.78), and TEN caused by phenobarbital (ROR 14.08, 95% CI 11.28-17.57). CONCLUSION: There are clear differences in the risk of cutaneous reactions among AEDs, and further studies are needed to confirm these findings.
30689189	Zonisamide	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse Cutaneous Drug Reactions Associated with Old- and New- Generation Antiepileptic Drugs Using the Japanese Pharmacovigilance Database.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Adverse cutaneous drug reactions associated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are a serious problem in the clinical setting. New-generation AEDs have been reported to be better tolerated than old-generation forms; however, information about the risks of adverse cutaneous drug reactions to new-generation AEDs is limited. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to clarify the association of AEDs with adverse cutaneous drug reactions using a spontaneous reporting database. METHODS: We performed a retrospective pharmacovigilance disproportionality analysis using the Japanese Adverse Drug Event Report (JADER) database. Adverse event reports submitted to the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency between April 2004 and January 2017 were analyzed. Based on reports of all adverse events, we obtained 4805 reports of adverse cutaneous drug reactions associated with AEDs, and calculated the reporting odds ratio (ROR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for drug rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). RESULTS: Individual AEDs had variable signals for drug rash, SJS, and TEN. The strongest signals were detected for drug rash caused by lamotrigine (ROR 9.18, 95% CI 8.65-9.74), SJS caused by zonisamide (ROR 9.85, 95% CI 8.23-11.78), and TEN caused by phenobarbital (ROR 14.08, 95% CI 11.28-17.57). CONCLUSION: There are clear differences in the risk of cutaneous reactions among AEDs, and further studies are needed to confirm these findings.
30552700	Vemurafenib	Neoplasms, Second Primary	1	1	0	0	0.0	NRAS Q61R and BRAF G466A mutations in atypical melanocytic lesions newly arising in advanced melanoma patients treated with vemurafenib.	BACKGROUND: BRAF inhibition has improved overall survival in patients with BRAF mutant melanoma, but this is associated with a range of known and predictable cutaneous side effects, including squamous cell carcinomas associated with RAS mutations. METHODS: We identified three severely dysplastic nevi, one atypical intraepidermal melanocytic proliferation, and four melanoma in situ lesions, newly arising in four patients undergoing treatment with vemurafenib. To characterize mutations in these atypical melanocytic lesions, we used a custom iPlex panel detecting 74 mutations in 13 genes known to play a role in melanoma pathogenesis. RESULTS: We identified an NRAS mutation at codon 61 (Q61R) and a rare BRAF exon 11 mutation (G466A) in atypical melanocytic lesions that arose in patients treated with vemurafenib. CONCLUSION: There appears to be development or accelerated growth of atypical melanocytic lesions in the setting of BRAF inhibition. Our results underscore the need for careful surveillance for melanocytic lesions in patients on BRAF inhibitor therapy and shed light on potential mechanisms for melanoma pathogenesis in the context of BRAF pathway blockade. Further studies are warranted to show a causal relationship.
30552700	Vemurafenib	Skin Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	NRAS Q61R and BRAF G466A mutations in atypical melanocytic lesions newly arising in advanced melanoma patients treated with vemurafenib.	BACKGROUND: BRAF inhibition has improved overall survival in patients with BRAF mutant melanoma, but this is associated with a range of known and predictable cutaneous side effects, including squamous cell carcinomas associated with RAS mutations. METHODS: We identified three severely dysplastic nevi, one atypical intraepidermal melanocytic proliferation, and four melanoma in situ lesions, newly arising in four patients undergoing treatment with vemurafenib. To characterize mutations in these atypical melanocytic lesions, we used a custom iPlex panel detecting 74 mutations in 13 genes known to play a role in melanoma pathogenesis. RESULTS: We identified an NRAS mutation at codon 61 (Q61R) and a rare BRAF exon 11 mutation (G466A) in atypical melanocytic lesions that arose in patients treated with vemurafenib. CONCLUSION: There appears to be development or accelerated growth of atypical melanocytic lesions in the setting of BRAF inhibition. Our results underscore the need for careful surveillance for melanocytic lesions in patients on BRAF inhibitor therapy and shed light on potential mechanisms for melanoma pathogenesis in the context of BRAF pathway blockade. Further studies are warranted to show a causal relationship.
29848923	Heroin	Ventricular Dysfunction, Left	1	1	0	0	0.0	Speckle-tracking strain assessment of left ventricular dysfunction in synthetic cannabinoid and heroin users.	OBJECTIVE: There is growing evidence regarding the numerous adverse effects of synthetic cannabinoids (SCBs) on the cardiovascular system; however, no studies have shown the cardiovascular effects of opioids using strain echocardiography. This study examines the cardiac structure and function using echocardiographic strain imaging in heroin and synthetic cannabinoid users. METHODS: This double-blind study included patients who were admitted or referred to a rehabilitation center for heroin (n=31) and synthetic cannabinoid users (n=30). Heroin users and synthetic cannabinoid users were compared with healthy volunteers (n=32) using two-dimensional (2D) speckle-tracking (ST) echocardiography. RESULTS: No differences were found in the baseline characteristics and 2D echocardiography values. The mean global longitudinal strain value was -20.5%+/-2.4% for SCB users, -22.3%+/-2.4% for opioid users, and -22.5%+/-2.2% for healthy volunteers (p=0.024). The mean apical 2-chamber (AP2C) L-strain values were -20.1%+/-3.1%, -22.4%+/-3.0%, and -22.3%+/-2.8% for SCB users, opioid users, and healthy volunteers, respectively (p=0.032). The mean apical 4-chamber (AP4C) L-strain values were -20.7%+/-2.5% for SCB users, -23.2%+/-3.2% for opioid users, and -23.8%+/-3.1% for healthy volunteers (p<0.001). CONCLUSION: SCBs are potential causes of subclinical left ventricular dysfunction.
29757924	Remifentanil	Respiratory Insufficiency	0	0	0	0		Placebo versus low-dose ketamine infusion in addition to remifentanil target-controlled infusion for conscious sedation during oocyte retrieval: A double-blinded, randomised controlled trial.	BACKGROUND: Currently, there is no gold standard for monitored anaesthesia care during oocyte retrieval. OBJECTIVE: In our institution, the standard is a conscious sedation technique using a target-controlled infusion (TCI) of remifentanil, titrated to maintain a visual analogue pain score less than 30 mm. This protocol is well accepted by patients but is associated with frequent episodes of respiratory depression. The main objective of this study was to evaluate whether the addition of a continuous intravenous infusion of ketamine could reduce these episodes. DESIGN: Controlled, randomised, prospective, double-blinded study. SETTING: The current study was conducted in a tertiary-level hospital in Brussels (Belgium) from December 2013 to June 2014. PATIENTS: Of the 132 women undergoing oocyte retrieval included, 121 completed the study. INTERVENTION: After randomisation, patients received either a ketamine infusion (40 mug kg min over 5 min followed by 2.5 mug kg min) or a 0.9% saline infusion in addition to the variable remifentanil TCI. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the number of respiratory depression episodes. Effect site target remifentanil concentrations, side effects, pain score, patient satisfaction and incidence of pregnancy were also recorded. RESULTS: No significant difference in the incidence of respiratory events was noted (pulse oximetry oxygen saturation < 95% was 49% in the ketamine group and 63% in the control group; P = 0.121). No patient required ventilatory support. In the ketamine group, visual analogue pain score and remifentanil concentrations were significantly reduced, but the latter remained above 2 ng ml. Postoperative nausea was less frequent in the ketamine group, 4 versus 15% (P = 0.038). The addition of ketamine did not influence length of stay nor patient satisfaction. CONCLUSION: The addition of low plasma levels of ketamine to a TCI remifentanil conscious sedation technique did not decrease the incidence nor the severity of respiratory depression. Continuous monitoring of capnography and oxygen saturation is always required. TRIAL REGISTRATION: EUDRACT number 2013-003040-23.
29361389	Pramipexole	Behavior, Addictive	1	1	0	0	0.0	Behavioral addictions in early-onset Parkinson disease are associated with DRD3 variants.	BACKGROUND: Impulse control disorders (ICDs) comprise abnormal behaviors frequently found in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) receiving antiparkinsonian medication. ICDs in PD would develop when dopaminergic treatment overstimulates the dopamine receptor D3 (DR3). Here we studied whether DR3 gene (DRD3) is associated to ICD in PD patients with early-onset (EOPD). METHODS: We performed association analysis of the rs6280 DRD3 single nucleotide variation (SNV) (Ser9Gly) in a clinical sample of 126 non early-onset PD (NEOPD) and 73 EOPD (age at onset < 45). ICD was evaluated using the Questionnaire for Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders (QUIP) in PD. RESULTS: In the total sample, we found that a younger onset of PD is linked to ICD traits with a potentially addictive reinforcement (ICDARs, behavioral addictions) (p = .017) and a trend for total ICDs (p = .078) while punding was not associated (p = .75). EOPD sample showed an increase of DRD3 C+ genotype for ICD (p = .022) and ICDARs (p = .043) but not for punding (p = .170). The post-hoc analyses including the time of evolution and Pramipexol or Ropinirole treatments, confirmed the independent effect of the DRD3 upon ICDs (p = .028) and ICDARs (p = .041) as well as the interaction between DRD3 and Pramipexol treatment upon ICDARs (OR = 4.60, 95% CI 1.20-17.632, p = .026). The NEOPD group showed no association between DRD3 and ICDs. CONCLUSIONS: We found that behavioral addictions in PD are associated with an early onset of the disease, the rs6280 DRD3 SNV and the type of dopamine agonist. Further investigation in independent samples is warranted.
29361389	Pramipexole	Disruptive, Impulse Control, and Conduct Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Behavioral addictions in early-onset Parkinson disease are associated with DRD3 variants.	BACKGROUND: Impulse control disorders (ICDs) comprise abnormal behaviors frequently found in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) receiving antiparkinsonian medication. ICDs in PD would develop when dopaminergic treatment overstimulates the dopamine receptor D3 (DR3). Here we studied whether DR3 gene (DRD3) is associated to ICD in PD patients with early-onset (EOPD). METHODS: We performed association analysis of the rs6280 DRD3 single nucleotide variation (SNV) (Ser9Gly) in a clinical sample of 126 non early-onset PD (NEOPD) and 73 EOPD (age at onset < 45). ICD was evaluated using the Questionnaire for Impulsive-Compulsive Disorders (QUIP) in PD. RESULTS: In the total sample, we found that a younger onset of PD is linked to ICD traits with a potentially addictive reinforcement (ICDARs, behavioral addictions) (p = .017) and a trend for total ICDs (p = .078) while punding was not associated (p = .75). EOPD sample showed an increase of DRD3 C+ genotype for ICD (p = .022) and ICDARs (p = .043) but not for punding (p = .170). The post-hoc analyses including the time of evolution and Pramipexol or Ropinirole treatments, confirmed the independent effect of the DRD3 upon ICDs (p = .028) and ICDARs (p = .041) as well as the interaction between DRD3 and Pramipexol treatment upon ICDARs (OR = 4.60, 95% CI 1.20-17.632, p = .026). The NEOPD group showed no association between DRD3 and ICDs. CONCLUSIONS: We found that behavioral addictions in PD are associated with an early onset of the disease, the rs6280 DRD3 SNV and the type of dopamine agonist. Further investigation in independent samples is warranted.
29117285	Capecitabine	Angiolymphoid Hyperplasia with Eosinophilia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Topical Timolol for Paronychia and Pseudopyogenic Granuloma in Patients Treated With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitors and Capecitabine.	This study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of topical timolol, 0.5%, gel as a treatment of paronychia and pseudopyogenic granuloma induced by antineoplastic agents.
29117285	Capecitabine	Paronychia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Topical Timolol for Paronychia and Pseudopyogenic Granuloma in Patients Treated With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitors and Capecitabine.	This study evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of topical timolol, 0.5%, gel as a treatment of paronychia and pseudopyogenic granuloma induced by antineoplastic agents.
30685913	Ustekinumab	Eosinophilia	1	0	0	0		Wells' Syndrome Induced by Ustekinumab.	
30362203	Levallorphan	Obstetric Labor Complications	0	0	0	0		Safety and efficacy of a combination of pethidine and levallorphan for pain relief during labor: An observational study.	AIM: To evaluate the safety, effect on breastfeeding and efficacy of a combination of pethidine and levallorphan (Pethilorfan) for pain relief during labor. METHODS: We compared maternal or neonatal morbidities, suckling difficulties in newborns and breastfeeding rates between 177 women who received 50-200 mg (as pethidine) of Pethilorfan during labor (Pethilorfan group) and 354 women who delivered their infants without analgesic drugs immediately before or after each woman in the Pethilorfan group (control group) from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2016. We performed univariate and multivariate analyses for comparison between the two groups. We also evaluated the efficacy of Pethilorfan retrospectively. RESULTS: The Pethilorfan group included more women with prolonged and/or operative deliveries than the control group. Nevertheless, no significant differences were seen between the two groups in the rates of Apgar scores less than 7 at 1 or 5 min, composite neonatal morbidities, hyperbilirubinemia or respiratory disturbances. The incidence of suckling difficulties lasting over 24 h and the breastfeeding rates at discharge or after 1 month were also similar. Maternal adverse effects of Pethilorfan were generally mild and transient. The efficacy ratio of Pethilorfan was 83.6%, although its analgesic effect was usually incomplete. CONCLUSION: Pethilorfan can be used safely for labor pain relief without increasing maternal or neonatal morbidities, or impeding breastfeeding, if it is administered at a prudent dosage. Parenteral opioids including Pethilorfan should remain as an option for treating women in labor pain, particularly when epidural analgesia is not readily available or contraindicated.
29617878	Ethanol	Osteoarthritis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Role of TGFbeta Signaling in Maternal Ethanol-Induced Fetal Articular Cartilage Dysplasia and Adult Onset of Osteoarthritis in Male Rats.	Based on our previous findings that prenatal ethanol exposure in offspring increased susceptibility to adult osteoarthritis, this study aimed to further investigate the direct toxicity of ethanol on fetal articular cartilage development. Rat bone marrow-derived stroma cells were capsulated in alginate beads, incubated in a chondrogenic differentiation medium, and cultured for 4 weeks with ethanol treatment at concentrations of 0, 4, 20, and 100 mM. Pregnant rats were treated with ethanol (4 g/kg/day) from gestational days (GDs) 9 to 20. At GD20 and postnatal weeks 2, 6, and 12, 8 male offspring were sacrificed, and 8 male offspring rats of 8-weeks old in each group were treated with or without intraarticular injection of papain for 4 weeks to verify the susceptibility of adult osteoarthritis. Ethanol treatment resulted in poor differentiation of bone marrow-derived stroma cells to chondrocytes and suppressed the expression of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta)-smad2/3-Sox9 signaling pathway. In animal experiments, the shape of articular cartilage in the ethanol treatment group was more disordered than that of the control group, the matrix was not deep, and the cartilage was thin, which showed poor cartilage development. The TGFbeta signaling pathway in the ethanol treatment group was persistently low at all time points. After intraarticular injection of papain, histological analyses, and the Mankin score revealed increased cartilage destruction in the ethanol treatment group. Ethanol caused articular cartilage dysplasia that was programmed in adulthood via a low-functional TGFbeta signaling pathway, and the tolerance of this articular cartilage to external stimuli was significantly decreased.
29615304	Trastuzumab	Vision Disorders	1	0	0	0		Corneal Changes in Trastuzumab Emtansine Treatment.	
29406888	Tamoxifen	Central Nervous System Vascular Malformations	1	0	0	0		Tamoxifen treatment and occurrence of dural arteriovenous fistulas: An observational study on a series of patients presenting tamoxifen history and diagnosis of DAVf.	
28871336	Zoledronic Acid	Fibrosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Zoledronate dysregulates fatty acid metabolism in renal tubular epithelial cells to induce nephrotoxicity.	Zoledronate is a bisphosphonate that is widely used in the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. However, zoledronate induces significant nephrotoxicity associated with acute tubular necrosis and renal fibrosis when administered intravenously. There is speculation that zoledronate-induced nephrotoxicity may result from its pharmacological activity as an inhibitor of the mevalonate pathway but the molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. In this report, human proximal tubular HK-2 cells and mouse models were combined to dissect the molecular pathways underlying nephropathy caused by zoledronate treatments. Metabolomic and proteomic assays revealed that multiple cellular processes were significantly disrupted, including the TGFbeta pathway, fatty acid metabolism and small GTPase signaling in zoledronate-treated HK-2 cells (50 muM) as compared with those in controls. Zoledronate treatments in cells (50 muM) and mice (3 mg/kg) increased TGFbeta/Smad3 pathway activation to induce fibrosis and kidney injury, and specifically elevated lipid accumulation and expression of fibrotic proteins. Conversely, fatty acid transport protein Slc27a2 deficiency or co-administration of PPARA agonist fenofibrate (20 mg/kg) prevented zoledronate-induced lipid accumulation and kidney fibrosis in mice, indicating that over-expression of fatty acid transporter SLC27A2 and defective fatty acid beta-oxidation following zoledronate treatments were significant factors contributing to its nephrotoxicity. These pharmacological and genetic studies provide an important mechanistic insight into zoledronate-associated kidney toxicity that will aid in development of therapeutic prevention and treatment options for this nephropathy.
28871336	Zoledronic Acid	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Zoledronate dysregulates fatty acid metabolism in renal tubular epithelial cells to induce nephrotoxicity.	Zoledronate is a bisphosphonate that is widely used in the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. However, zoledronate induces significant nephrotoxicity associated with acute tubular necrosis and renal fibrosis when administered intravenously. There is speculation that zoledronate-induced nephrotoxicity may result from its pharmacological activity as an inhibitor of the mevalonate pathway but the molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. In this report, human proximal tubular HK-2 cells and mouse models were combined to dissect the molecular pathways underlying nephropathy caused by zoledronate treatments. Metabolomic and proteomic assays revealed that multiple cellular processes were significantly disrupted, including the TGFbeta pathway, fatty acid metabolism and small GTPase signaling in zoledronate-treated HK-2 cells (50 muM) as compared with those in controls. Zoledronate treatments in cells (50 muM) and mice (3 mg/kg) increased TGFbeta/Smad3 pathway activation to induce fibrosis and kidney injury, and specifically elevated lipid accumulation and expression of fibrotic proteins. Conversely, fatty acid transport protein Slc27a2 deficiency or co-administration of PPARA agonist fenofibrate (20 mg/kg) prevented zoledronate-induced lipid accumulation and kidney fibrosis in mice, indicating that over-expression of fatty acid transporter SLC27A2 and defective fatty acid beta-oxidation following zoledronate treatments were significant factors contributing to its nephrotoxicity. These pharmacological and genetic studies provide an important mechanistic insight into zoledronate-associated kidney toxicity that will aid in development of therapeutic prevention and treatment options for this nephropathy.
31096438	Sunitinib	Anemia	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of perioperative appliance of sunitinib in patients with metastatic or advanced renal cell carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to comprehensively evaluate the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib in patients with metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched authenticated databases for related clinical studies. The baseline characteristics, parameters concerning the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib were extracted for subsequent comprehensive analysis. The parameters which reflected the efficacy and safety as overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), occurrence rate of all-grade and grade >/=3 adverse effects (AEs) were carefully pooled using comprehensive meta-analysis. RESULTS: We finally recruited 411 patients from 14 eligible studies. We found proteinuria (75.0%, 95% CI 62.1%-84.6%), anemia (71.6%, 95% CI 60.9%-80.3%), athesia (60.0%, 95% CI 40.3%-77.0%), pause symptoms (59.2%, 95% CI 49.2%-68.4%), arterial hypertension (53.1%, 95% CI 43.2%-62.7%), and thrombocytopenia (52.5%, 95% CI 44.8%-60.0%) to be the most common all-grade AEs. And arterial hypertension, athesia, cutaneous toxicity, hypophosphatemia, leukopenia, pain, pause syndrome, renal dysfunction, and thrombocytopenia were the most common types of grade >/=3 AEs. In addition, objective response rate (ORR) of sunitinib to both the original and metastatic tumor sites increased with the use of sunitinib, so did the OS and PFS. CONCLUSION: Common all-grade and grade >/=3 AEs were carefully monitored. The perioperative use of sunitinib showed superior ORR, OS, and PFS rates. Nevertheless, more studies are required to further verify these findings.
31096438	Sunitinib	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of perioperative appliance of sunitinib in patients with metastatic or advanced renal cell carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to comprehensively evaluate the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib in patients with metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched authenticated databases for related clinical studies. The baseline characteristics, parameters concerning the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib were extracted for subsequent comprehensive analysis. The parameters which reflected the efficacy and safety as overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), occurrence rate of all-grade and grade >/=3 adverse effects (AEs) were carefully pooled using comprehensive meta-analysis. RESULTS: We finally recruited 411 patients from 14 eligible studies. We found proteinuria (75.0%, 95% CI 62.1%-84.6%), anemia (71.6%, 95% CI 60.9%-80.3%), athesia (60.0%, 95% CI 40.3%-77.0%), pause symptoms (59.2%, 95% CI 49.2%-68.4%), arterial hypertension (53.1%, 95% CI 43.2%-62.7%), and thrombocytopenia (52.5%, 95% CI 44.8%-60.0%) to be the most common all-grade AEs. And arterial hypertension, athesia, cutaneous toxicity, hypophosphatemia, leukopenia, pain, pause syndrome, renal dysfunction, and thrombocytopenia were the most common types of grade >/=3 AEs. In addition, objective response rate (ORR) of sunitinib to both the original and metastatic tumor sites increased with the use of sunitinib, so did the OS and PFS. CONCLUSION: Common all-grade and grade >/=3 AEs were carefully monitored. The perioperative use of sunitinib showed superior ORR, OS, and PFS rates. Nevertheless, more studies are required to further verify these findings.
31096438	Sunitinib	Proteinuria	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of perioperative appliance of sunitinib in patients with metastatic or advanced renal cell carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to comprehensively evaluate the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib in patients with metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched authenticated databases for related clinical studies. The baseline characteristics, parameters concerning the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib were extracted for subsequent comprehensive analysis. The parameters which reflected the efficacy and safety as overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), occurrence rate of all-grade and grade >/=3 adverse effects (AEs) were carefully pooled using comprehensive meta-analysis. RESULTS: We finally recruited 411 patients from 14 eligible studies. We found proteinuria (75.0%, 95% CI 62.1%-84.6%), anemia (71.6%, 95% CI 60.9%-80.3%), athesia (60.0%, 95% CI 40.3%-77.0%), pause symptoms (59.2%, 95% CI 49.2%-68.4%), arterial hypertension (53.1%, 95% CI 43.2%-62.7%), and thrombocytopenia (52.5%, 95% CI 44.8%-60.0%) to be the most common all-grade AEs. And arterial hypertension, athesia, cutaneous toxicity, hypophosphatemia, leukopenia, pain, pause syndrome, renal dysfunction, and thrombocytopenia were the most common types of grade >/=3 AEs. In addition, objective response rate (ORR) of sunitinib to both the original and metastatic tumor sites increased with the use of sunitinib, so did the OS and PFS. CONCLUSION: Common all-grade and grade >/=3 AEs were carefully monitored. The perioperative use of sunitinib showed superior ORR, OS, and PFS rates. Nevertheless, more studies are required to further verify these findings.
31096438	Sunitinib	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and safety of perioperative appliance of sunitinib in patients with metastatic or advanced renal cell carcinoma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to comprehensively evaluate the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib in patients with metastatic and advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched authenticated databases for related clinical studies. The baseline characteristics, parameters concerning the efficacy and safety of the perioperative use of sunitinib were extracted for subsequent comprehensive analysis. The parameters which reflected the efficacy and safety as overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), occurrence rate of all-grade and grade >/=3 adverse effects (AEs) were carefully pooled using comprehensive meta-analysis. RESULTS: We finally recruited 411 patients from 14 eligible studies. We found proteinuria (75.0%, 95% CI 62.1%-84.6%), anemia (71.6%, 95% CI 60.9%-80.3%), athesia (60.0%, 95% CI 40.3%-77.0%), pause symptoms (59.2%, 95% CI 49.2%-68.4%), arterial hypertension (53.1%, 95% CI 43.2%-62.7%), and thrombocytopenia (52.5%, 95% CI 44.8%-60.0%) to be the most common all-grade AEs. And arterial hypertension, athesia, cutaneous toxicity, hypophosphatemia, leukopenia, pain, pause syndrome, renal dysfunction, and thrombocytopenia were the most common types of grade >/=3 AEs. In addition, objective response rate (ORR) of sunitinib to both the original and metastatic tumor sites increased with the use of sunitinib, so did the OS and PFS. CONCLUSION: Common all-grade and grade >/=3 AEs were carefully monitored. The perioperative use of sunitinib showed superior ORR, OS, and PFS rates. Nevertheless, more studies are required to further verify these findings.
31091374	Fulvestrant	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Alpelisib for PIK3CA-Mutated, Hormone Receptor-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer.	BACKGROUND: PIK3CA mutations occur in approximately 40% of patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer. The PI3Kalpha-specific inhibitor alpelisib has shown antitumor activity in early studies. METHODS: In a randomized, phase 3 trial, we compared alpelisib (at a dose of 300 mg per day) plus fulvestrant (at a dose of 500 mg every 28 days and once on day 15) with placebo plus fulvestrant in patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer who had received endocrine therapy previously. Patients were enrolled into two cohorts on the basis of tumor-tissue PIK3CA mutation status. The primary end point was progression-free survival, as assessed by the investigator, in the cohort with PIK3CA-mutated cancer; progression-free survival was also analyzed in the cohort without PIK3CA-mutated cancer. Secondary end points included overall response and safety. RESULTS: A total of 572 patients underwent randomization, including 341 patients with confirmed tumor-tissue PIK3CA mutations. In the cohort of patients with PIK3CA-mutated cancer, progression-free survival at a median follow-up of 20 months was 11.0 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 7.5 to 14.5) in the alpelisib-fulvestrant group, as compared with 5.7 months (95% CI, 3.7 to 7.4) in the placebo-fulvestrant group (hazard ratio for progression or death, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.50 to 0.85; P<0.001); in the cohort without PIK3CA-mutated cancer, the hazard ratio was 0.85 (95% CI, 0.58 to 1.25; posterior probability of hazard ratio <1.00, 79.4%). Overall response among all the patients in the cohort without PIK3CA-mutated cancer was greater with alpelisib-fulvestrant than with placebo-fulvestrant (26.6% vs. 12.8%); among patients with measurable disease in this cohort, the percentages were 35.7% and 16.2%, respectively. In the overall population, the most frequent adverse events of grade 3 or 4 were hyperglycemia (36.6% in the alpelisib-fulvestrant group vs. 0.7% in the placebo-fulvestrant group) and rash (9.9% vs. 0.3%). Diarrhea of grade 3 occurred in 6.7% of patients in the alpelisib-fulvestrant group, as compared with 0.3% of those in the placebo-fulvestrant group; no diarrhea of grade 4 was reported. The percentages of patients who discontinued alpelisib and placebo owing to adverse events were 25.0% and 4.2%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with alpelisib-fulvestrant prolonged progression-free survival among patients with PIK3CA-mutated, HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer who had received endocrine therapy previously. (Funded by Novartis Pharmaceuticals; SOLAR-1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02437318.).
31045777	Nickel	Heart Defects, Congenital	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metal nickel exposure increase the risk of congenital heart defects occurrence in offspring: A case-control study in China.	BACKGROUND: Previous studies have investigated heavy metal exposure could increase the occurrence of congenital heart defects (CHDs). However, there are limited data regarding the relationship between exposure to nickel and CHDs occurrence in offspring. The aim of this study was to analyze the association between nickel exposure in mothers and the risk of CHDs in offspring. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To explore the association of nickel exposure and occurrence of CHD, a case-control study with 490 controls and 399 cases with CHDs in China were developed. The concentrations of nickel in hair of pregnant woman and fetal placental tissue were measured and used a logistic regression analysis to explore the relationship between nickel exposure and risk of CHD. RESULTS: The median concentrations of nickel were 0.629 ng/mg, P < .05 (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 1.326; 95% CI, 1.003-1.757) and 0.178 ng/mg, P < .05 (aOR, 2.204; 95% CI, 0.783-6.206), in maternal hair and in fetal placental tissue in the CHD group, respectively. Significant differences in the level of nickel in hair were also found in the different CHD subtypes including septal defects (P < .05), conotruncal defects (P < .05), right ventricular outflow tract obstruction (P < .01), and left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (P < .05). Dramatically different nickel concentrations in fetal placenta tissue were found in cases with other heart defects (P < .05). CONCLUSIONS: The finding suggested that the occurrence of CHDs may be associated with nickel exposure.
30977331	Bevacizumab	Retinal Perforations	1	0	0	0		Macular Hole Formation after Intravitreal Injection of Bevacizumab for Diabetic Macular Edema.	
30772164	Losartan	Tongue Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hemilingual Angioedema after Thrombolysis in a Patient on an Angiotensin II Receptor Blocker.	Orolingual angioedema (OLAE) is a rare adverse effect of alteplase. Previous studies have associated the occurrence of OLAE with thrombolysed patients maintained on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. We report a case of a 60-year-old male presenting with hyperacute ischemic stroke developing hemilingual edema after thrombolysis. He was previously maintained on an angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB), losartan. The swelling resolved over 2 days with immediate administration of intravenous steroids and antihistamine drugs. Our case is the third documented case of OLAE occurring in a thrombolysed patient concurrently taking an ARB. The presence of hemilingual edema in a post-thrombolysis patient maintained on losartan suggests a possible association between OLAE and ARBs.
30739089	Panitumumab	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	1	0	0	0.0	A case of panitumumab containing chemotherapy causing interstitial lung disease: early recognition and treatment resulting in a good outcome.	Panitumumab is a recombinant human IgG(2) monoclonal antibody which is used for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with disease progression on or following FOLFIRI (fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan) containing chemotherapy regimen. We report a case of an 83-year-old Hispanic man, non-smoker, with KRAS/NRAS wild-type mCRC of the liver who was treated with 9 cycles of FOLFOX4 (fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin) and cetuximab. Follow-up abdominal imaging showed progression of CRC, requiring initiation of panitumumab in addition to FOLFIRI. After 2 cycles of this combination chemotherapy, he presented with acute hypoxaemic respiratory failure. Pulmonary imaging showed new onset of interstitial lung disease (ILD). He was treated with systemic corticosteroids with marked improvement of ILD. We aim to highlight the risk of severe life-threatening ILD associated with panitumumab. Early recognition of this serious adverse event helps avoid unnecessary administration of systemic antibiotics and prevent mortality.
30451619	Phenylpropanolamine	Hypertrophy	0	1	0	0		Myocardial hypertrophy associated with long-term phenylpropanolamine use in a dog.	CASE DESCRIPTION A 9-year-old spayed female Dalmatian was examined because of progressive pelvic limb paraparesis. CLINICAL FINDINGS The dog had a history of chronic urinary incontinence and had been treated with phenylpropanolamine (PPA) for almost 8.5 years. Intervertebral disk disease at T12-13 was diagnosed, and a hemilaminectomy was performed. Three days after surgery, the dog developed a ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Severe left and mild right ventricular hypertrophy were detected by echocardiography. TREATMENT AND OUTCOME The arrhythmia was controlled with sotalol. Phenylpropanolamine administration was discontinued immediately before surgery and was not resumed. Heart rate and rhythm and blood pressure were within reference limits, and the ventricular hypertrophy had almost completely resolved 5 months later. Sotalol administration was discontinued. Shortly after the 5-month recheck evaluation, PPA administration was resumed, albeit at a lower dosage than that before surgery, for control of urinary incontinence. At the 10-month recheck evaluation, the dog was hypertensive and ventricular hypertrophy had recurred. Discontinuation of PPA administration was recommended but not heeded. The dog developed marked azotemia 1.5 years after surgery, which was managed by the referring veterinarian, and was subsequently lost to follow-up. CLINICAL RELEVANCE The fact that the ventricular hypertrophy almost completely resolved when PPA administration was discontinued and then recurred after it was resumed strongly suggested the drug was an important contributing factor to the cardiac disease of this patient. Patients receiving PPA on a long-term basis should be frequently monitored for cardiac disease, and use of other adrenergic receptor agonists should be avoided in such patients.
30410662	Sorafenib	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-Induced Acute Myocarditis, Myositis, and Cardiogenic Shock.	
30410662	Sorafenib	Myositis	1	0	0	0		Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-Induced Acute Myocarditis, Myositis, and Cardiogenic Shock.	
30410662	Sorafenib	Shock, Cardiogenic	1	0	0	0		Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-Induced Acute Myocarditis, Myositis, and Cardiogenic Shock.	
30185228	Letrozole	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		A phase Ib study of pictilisib (GDC-0941) in combination with paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, and with letrozole in advanced breast cancer.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study (NCT00960960) evaluated pictilisib (GDC-0941; pan-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor) plus paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, or in combination with letrozole, in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. METHODS: This was a three-part multischedule study. Patients in parts 1 and 2, which comprised 3 + 3 dose escalation and cohort expansion stages, received pictilisib (60-330 mg) plus paclitaxel (90 mg/m(2)) with and without bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) or trastuzumab (2-4 mg/kg). In part 3, patients received pictilisib (260 mg) plus letrozole (2.5 mg). Primary objectives were evaluation of safety and tolerability, identification of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pictilisib, and recommendation of a phase II dosing regimen. Secondary endpoints included pharmacokinetics and preliminary antitumor activity. RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients were enrolled; all experienced at least one adverse event (AE). Grade >/= 3 AEs, serious AEs, and AEs leading to death were reported in 50 (72.5%), 21 (30.4%), and 2 (2.9%) patients, respectively. Six (8.7%) patients reported a DLT, and the MTD and recommended phase II pictilisib doses were established where possible. There was no pictilisib-paclitaxel drug-drug interaction. Two (3.4%) patients experienced complete responses, and 17 (29.3%) patients had partial responses. CONCLUSIONS: Combining pictilisib with paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, or letrozole, had a manageable safety profile in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. The combination had antitumor activity, and the additive effect of pictilisib supported further investigation in a randomized study. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00960960 . Registered on August 13, 2009.
30185228	Letrozole	Nausea	0	0	0	0		A phase Ib study of pictilisib (GDC-0941) in combination with paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, and with letrozole in advanced breast cancer.	BACKGROUND: This phase Ib study (NCT00960960) evaluated pictilisib (GDC-0941; pan-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor) plus paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, or in combination with letrozole, in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. METHODS: This was a three-part multischedule study. Patients in parts 1 and 2, which comprised 3 + 3 dose escalation and cohort expansion stages, received pictilisib (60-330 mg) plus paclitaxel (90 mg/m(2)) with and without bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) or trastuzumab (2-4 mg/kg). In part 3, patients received pictilisib (260 mg) plus letrozole (2.5 mg). Primary objectives were evaluation of safety and tolerability, identification of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pictilisib, and recommendation of a phase II dosing regimen. Secondary endpoints included pharmacokinetics and preliminary antitumor activity. RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients were enrolled; all experienced at least one adverse event (AE). Grade >/= 3 AEs, serious AEs, and AEs leading to death were reported in 50 (72.5%), 21 (30.4%), and 2 (2.9%) patients, respectively. Six (8.7%) patients reported a DLT, and the MTD and recommended phase II pictilisib doses were established where possible. There was no pictilisib-paclitaxel drug-drug interaction. Two (3.4%) patients experienced complete responses, and 17 (29.3%) patients had partial responses. CONCLUSIONS: Combining pictilisib with paclitaxel, with and without bevacizumab or trastuzumab, or letrozole, had a manageable safety profile in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. The combination had antitumor activity, and the additive effect of pictilisib supported further investigation in a randomized study. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT00960960 . Registered on August 13, 2009.
30062790	Pristinamycin	Intertrigo	1	0	0	0		Symmetrical drug-related intertriginous and flexural exanthema (SDRIFE) associated with pristinamycin, secnidazole, and nefopam, with a review of the literature.	
29969801	Nivolumab	Cholangitis	1	0	0	0		Peroral cholangioscopy of nivolumab-related (induced) ulcerative cholangitis in a patient with non-small cell lung cancer.	
29952365	Ticagrelor	Lung Diseases	1	0	0	0		Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage associated with ticagrelor therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention.	
29952365	Ticagrelor	Postoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage associated with ticagrelor therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention.	
29396682	Fluticasone	Olfaction Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Causality Assessment of Olfactory and Gustatory Dysfunction Associated with Intranasal Fluticasone Propionate: Application of the Bradford Hill Criteria.	Causality assessment is crucial to post-marketing pharmacovigilance and helps optimize safe and appropriate use of medicines by patients in the real world. Self-reported olfactory and gustatory dysfunction are common in the general population as well as in patients with allergic rhinitis and nasal polyposis. Intranasal corticosteroids, including intranasal fluticasone propionate (INFP), are amongst the most effective drugs indicated in the treatment of allergic rhinitis and nasal polyposis. While intranasal corticosteroids are associated with olfactory and gustatory dysfunction and are currently labeled for these adverse events, causality assessment has not been performed to date. Although there is no single widely accepted method to assess causality in pharmacovigilance, the Bradford Hill criteria offer a robust and comprehensive approach because nine distinct aspects of an observed potential drug-event association are assessed. In this literature-based narrative review, Hill's criteria were applied to determine causal inference between INFP and olfactory and gustatory dysfunction.
29270779	Tapentadol	Seizures	1	0	0	0		Review of Post-Marketing Safety Data on Tapentadol, a Centrally Acting Analgesic.	INTRODUCTION: Tapentadol is a centrally acting analgesic that has been available for the management of acute and chronic pain in routine clinical practice since 2009. METHODS: This is the first integrated descriptive analysis of post-marketing safety data following the use of tapentadol in a broad range of pain conditions relating to the topics overall safety, dose administration above approved dosages, administration during pregnancy, serotonin syndrome, respiratory depression, and convulsion. The data analyzed pertain to spontaneous reports from healthcare and non-healthcare professionals and were put in the context of safety information known from interventional and non-interventional trials. RESULTS: The first years of routine clinical practice experience with tapentadol have confirmed the tolerability profile that emerged from the clinical trials. Moreover, the reporting of expected side effects such as respiratory depression and convulsion was low and no major risks were identified. The evaluation of available post-marketing data did not confirm the theoretical risk of serotonin syndrome nor did it reveal unexpected side effects with administration of higher than recommended doses. CONCLUSION: More than 8 years after its first introduction, the favorable overall safety profile of tapentadol in the treatment of various pain conditions is maintained in the general population. FUNDING: Grunenthal GmbH.
29270779	Tapentadol	Serotonin Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Review of Post-Marketing Safety Data on Tapentadol, a Centrally Acting Analgesic.	INTRODUCTION: Tapentadol is a centrally acting analgesic that has been available for the management of acute and chronic pain in routine clinical practice since 2009. METHODS: This is the first integrated descriptive analysis of post-marketing safety data following the use of tapentadol in a broad range of pain conditions relating to the topics overall safety, dose administration above approved dosages, administration during pregnancy, serotonin syndrome, respiratory depression, and convulsion. The data analyzed pertain to spontaneous reports from healthcare and non-healthcare professionals and were put in the context of safety information known from interventional and non-interventional trials. RESULTS: The first years of routine clinical practice experience with tapentadol have confirmed the tolerability profile that emerged from the clinical trials. Moreover, the reporting of expected side effects such as respiratory depression and convulsion was low and no major risks were identified. The evaluation of available post-marketing data did not confirm the theoretical risk of serotonin syndrome nor did it reveal unexpected side effects with administration of higher than recommended doses. CONCLUSION: More than 8 years after its first introduction, the favorable overall safety profile of tapentadol in the treatment of various pain conditions is maintained in the general population. FUNDING: Grunenthal GmbH.
29114903	Cefuroxime	Occupational Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Occupational generalized urticaria and anaphylaxis after inhalation of cefuroxime in a nurse.	We present the case of a 53 years old nonatopic female nurse who experienced repeated anaphylactic reactions at work without involvement in drug-specific tasks such as crushing of tablets or preparation of injections. The causal allergen was not identified until a further severe anaphylactic reaction occurred after oral use of cefuroxime during a respiratory infection. Sensitization to cefuroxime was demonstrated by specific IgE, basophil activation test and skin prick test. An inhalation challenge with a dosimeter induced generalized urticaria after a cumulative dose of about 10 mug of the drug, but no asthmatic reaction. Complete exposure cessation was initiated and a 1-year follow-up was without further allergic reactions. We conclude that work-related systemic allergic reactions to beta-lactam antibiotics may occur in nurses after inhalation of low doses and without perceived association with drug-specific tasks like handling of antibiotics.
28379460	Ketamine	Complex Regional Pain Syndromes	1	0	0	0		Ketamine-Induced Mania During Treatment for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome.	
31096532	Ipilimumab	Alopecia	1	0	0	0		Risk of dermatologic and mucosal adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in cancer patients: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	BACKGROUND: Programmed death 1 protein (PD-1) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors are promising cancer immunotherapy. Their dermatologic safety profiles are still poorly understood. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the incidence of selected dermatologic and mucosal adverse effects (AEs) and determine the risk of developing these adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab. METHODS: PubMed was searched for eligible studies (up to February 21, 2019). Only phase II and phase III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab monotherapy were included in this meta-analysis. RESULTS: A total 11,465 patients from 18 clinical trials were included in this meta-analysis. Rash and pruritus were the most frequently reported dermatologic AE, with incidence 11.8% and 12.2% respectively. Compared with patients receiving chemotherapy, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor treated patients had higher risk of developing rash (RR = 1.84), pruritus (RR = 3.74) and vitiligo (RR = 9.54), and also lower risk in developing mucosal inflammation (RR = 0.26), stomatitis (RR = 0.26), and alopecia (RR = 0.03). Additionally, anti-PD1/PD-L1 drugs had similar risk of developing rash and lower risk of inducing pruritus compared to ipilimumab. In the subgroup analysis, PD-L1 inhibitor demonstrated better safety than PD-1 inhibitor in developing rash, with RR = 1.38 and RR = 2.11, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our meta-analysis concluded that anti PD-1/PD-L1 drugs have different dermatological and mucosal safety profile compared to conventional therapy, and differences of dermatological toxicity between PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitor warrant further investigation.
31096532	Ipilimumab	Mucositis	1	0	0	0		Risk of dermatologic and mucosal adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in cancer patients: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	BACKGROUND: Programmed death 1 protein (PD-1) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors are promising cancer immunotherapy. Their dermatologic safety profiles are still poorly understood. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the incidence of selected dermatologic and mucosal adverse effects (AEs) and determine the risk of developing these adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab. METHODS: PubMed was searched for eligible studies (up to February 21, 2019). Only phase II and phase III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab monotherapy were included in this meta-analysis. RESULTS: A total 11,465 patients from 18 clinical trials were included in this meta-analysis. Rash and pruritus were the most frequently reported dermatologic AE, with incidence 11.8% and 12.2% respectively. Compared with patients receiving chemotherapy, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor treated patients had higher risk of developing rash (RR = 1.84), pruritus (RR = 3.74) and vitiligo (RR = 9.54), and also lower risk in developing mucosal inflammation (RR = 0.26), stomatitis (RR = 0.26), and alopecia (RR = 0.03). Additionally, anti-PD1/PD-L1 drugs had similar risk of developing rash and lower risk of inducing pruritus compared to ipilimumab. In the subgroup analysis, PD-L1 inhibitor demonstrated better safety than PD-1 inhibitor in developing rash, with RR = 1.38 and RR = 2.11, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our meta-analysis concluded that anti PD-1/PD-L1 drugs have different dermatological and mucosal safety profile compared to conventional therapy, and differences of dermatological toxicity between PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitor warrant further investigation.
31096532	Ipilimumab	Stomatitis	1	0	0	0		Risk of dermatologic and mucosal adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors in cancer patients: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	BACKGROUND: Programmed death 1 protein (PD-1) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors are promising cancer immunotherapy. Their dermatologic safety profiles are still poorly understood. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the incidence of selected dermatologic and mucosal adverse effects (AEs) and determine the risk of developing these adverse events associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab. METHODS: PubMed was searched for eligible studies (up to February 21, 2019). Only phase II and phase III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) compared with chemotherapy or ipilimumab monotherapy were included in this meta-analysis. RESULTS: A total 11,465 patients from 18 clinical trials were included in this meta-analysis. Rash and pruritus were the most frequently reported dermatologic AE, with incidence 11.8% and 12.2% respectively. Compared with patients receiving chemotherapy, PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor treated patients had higher risk of developing rash (RR = 1.84), pruritus (RR = 3.74) and vitiligo (RR = 9.54), and also lower risk in developing mucosal inflammation (RR = 0.26), stomatitis (RR = 0.26), and alopecia (RR = 0.03). Additionally, anti-PD1/PD-L1 drugs had similar risk of developing rash and lower risk of inducing pruritus compared to ipilimumab. In the subgroup analysis, PD-L1 inhibitor demonstrated better safety than PD-1 inhibitor in developing rash, with RR = 1.38 and RR = 2.11, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our meta-analysis concluded that anti PD-1/PD-L1 drugs have different dermatological and mucosal safety profile compared to conventional therapy, and differences of dermatological toxicity between PD-1 and PD-L1 inhibitor warrant further investigation.
30765440	Ergonovine	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ergometrine-induced atrial fibrillation at caesarean section.	A 36-year-old woman with a history of one previous caesarean section presented to the birthing suite of a regional hospital with spontaneous rupture of membranes at 39+2/40 weeks. Syntocinon was administered to initiate uterine contractions in the absence of labour, as the patient desired vaginal birth. A caesarean section was subsequently indicated and ergometrine was administered for uterine atony. The patient immediately developed atrial fibrillation (AF). AF is the most common sustained arrhythmia in the general population, but is rare in the obstetric population. AF occurring in an intrapartum setting following the administration of syntocinon and ergometrine, is not documented in the literature. We suggest the initiation of paroxysmal AF was precipitated by an abrupt alteration in autonomic tone caused by administration of syntocinon followed by ergometrine.
30765440	Oxytocin	Atrial Fibrillation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ergometrine-induced atrial fibrillation at caesarean section.	A 36-year-old woman with a history of one previous caesarean section presented to the birthing suite of a regional hospital with spontaneous rupture of membranes at 39+2/40 weeks. Syntocinon was administered to initiate uterine contractions in the absence of labour, as the patient desired vaginal birth. A caesarean section was subsequently indicated and ergometrine was administered for uterine atony. The patient immediately developed atrial fibrillation (AF). AF is the most common sustained arrhythmia in the general population, but is rare in the obstetric population. AF occurring in an intrapartum setting following the administration of syntocinon and ergometrine, is not documented in the literature. We suggest the initiation of paroxysmal AF was precipitated by an abrupt alteration in autonomic tone caused by administration of syntocinon followed by ergometrine.
30450556	Enoxaparin	Urticaria	1	0	0	0		Skin tests in patients with delayed and immediate hypersensitivity to heparins: A case series.	
30450556	Nadroparin	Urticaria	1	0	0	0		Skin tests in patients with delayed and immediate hypersensitivity to heparins: A case series.	
30370559	Potassium Dichromate	Pruritus	1	0	0	0		Peculiar contact dermatitis in a construction worker.	
30048965	Carbamazepine	Labyrinth Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cochlear Function in Adults with Epilepsy and Treated with Carbamazepine.	BACKGROUND: Epilepsy is a chronic medical disease and is associated with comorbid adverse somatic conditions due to epilepsy itself or its long-term treatment. OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated cochlear function in patients with idiopathic epilepsy and treated with carbamazepine (CBZ). PATIENTS AND METHODS: Included were 47 patients (mean age = 34.56 +/- 7.11 years and duration of illness = 17.84 +/- 7.21 years) and 40 healthy subjects. They underwent pure-tone audiometry and transient evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) analyses. RESULTS: Hearing loss (mainly bilateral mild) was reported in one third of patients. Compared to controls, patients had lower TEOAE amplitudes at 1.0-4.0 kHz particularly at high frequencies (3 and 4 kHz). Significant correlations were identified between TEOAE amplitudes with CBZ dose (at 3 kHz: r = -0.554, p = 0.008; at 4 kHz: r = -0.347, p = 0.01), its serum level (at 4 kHz: r = -0.280, p = 0.045) and duration of treatment (at 3 kHz: r = -0.392, p = 0.008; at 4 kHz: r = -0.542, p = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Long-term CBZ treatment may result in cochlear dysfunction and auditory deficits.
29536479	Dabigatran	Cerebral Infarction	0	0	0	0		Repeated Administration of Idarucizumab to a Patient with Dabigatran Overdose.	Idarucizumab is designed to reverse the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran. This case report describes the administration of three independent doses of idarucizumab to a 76-year-old man suffering from atrial flutter being treated with dabigatran to prevent ischaemic stroke. The last dose of dabigatran was administered in the morning of the same day the patient was transferred to hospital because of the need for urgent pericardium puncture. Baseline dTT (dilute thrombin time) reached 700 ng/mL as glomerular filtration (GF) dropped to 0.19 mL/s. The first dose of idarucizumab was administered prior to puncture and the clinical state was stabilized for the next 24 hours although dTT climbed to 400 ng/mL. The need for cannulation before dialysis required a second dose of antidote and a third dose was given prior to removal of the pericardium drain. Monitoring of dabigatran recovery showed that the reverse effect of idarucizumab lasted 12 hours, which is sufficiently long and reliable for urgent situations. Idarucizumab administration is not limited by age and/or renal impairment. We recommend repeated dTT examinations when the dabigatran baseline level exceeds 200 ng/mL and the antidote has been administered.
30544759	Ethanol	Multiple Organ Failure	1	1	0	0	0.0	Role of HIF-1alpha in Alcohol-Mediated Multiple Organ Dysfunction.	Excess alcohol consumption is a global crisis contributing to over 3 million alcohol-related deaths per year worldwide and economic costs exceeding $200 billion dollars, which include productivity losses, healthcare, and other effects (e.g., property damages). Both clinical and experimental models have shown that excessive alcohol consumption results in multiple organ injury. Although alcohol metabolism occurs primarily in the liver, alcohol exposure can lead to pathophysiological conditions in multiple organs and tissues, including the brain, lungs, adipose, liver, and intestines. Understanding the mechanisms by which alcohol-mediated organ dysfunction occurs could help to identify new therapeutic approaches to mitigate the detrimental effects of alcohol misuse. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 is a transcription factor comprised of HIF-1alpha and HIF-1beta subunits that play a critical role in alcohol-mediated organ dysfunction. This review provides a comprehensive analysis of recent studies examining the relationship between HIF-1alpha and alcohol consumption as it relates to multiple organ injury and potential therapies to mitigate alcohol's effects.
30167998	Dabigatran	Atrial Fibrillation	0	1	0	0		Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Direct Oral Anticoagulants in Patients with Renal Failure.	A recent survey on the use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) revealed that 43% of patients with atrial fibrillation and renal impairment were potentially overdosed and had a hazard ratio for major bleeding of 2.19. In this review, we analyse and discuss the effect of renal failure on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of DOACs and of strategies proposed to adjust doses according to the level of renal dysfunction. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of available DOACs (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban, betrixaban) differ substantially as regards oral bioavailability, plasma protein binding and the relative involvement of renal and non-renal elimination. In this respect, 80% of dabigatran is excreted as an unchanged drug in urine, whereas edoxaban, rivaroxaban, apixaban and betrixiban are excreted unchanged by, respectively, 50, 33, 27 and 11% of the dose. Therefore, drug exposure (the area under the concentration-time curve, AUC) is expected to increase to differing extents, depending on the residual renal function and the contribution of the kidneys to the excretion of each drug. Our analysis found that the increased AUC in patients with severe renal dysfunction was greater than expected in the case of dabigatran, betrixaban and rivaroxaban, indicating that other pharmacokinetic parameters may be altered besides renal clearance. Although DAOC pharmacodynamics do not seem to be altered by renal diseases (the correlation between plasma levels and anticoagulant effects overlaps that of healthy subjects), renal failure per se is associated with an increased risk of bleeding and thromboembolism. Guidelines on dose adjustments in patients with renal dysfunction have been published by three National Drug Agencies (FDA, EMA, HC), but many of their items do not match one another, reflecting our substantial paucity of knowledge in advanced renal failure. Routine monitoring of DOAC anticoagulant effects or plasma concentrations is not recommended, since no validated therapeutic ranges have been established. However, this approach may be useful in emergency situations such as bleeding or thrombotic events, urgent surgery, pharmacokinetic interactions, etc. We conclude that more experimental work is needed to improve our knowledge of DOAC pharmacology in renal failure and to provide clinicians with valid tools to adjust therapy.
30167998	Rivaroxaban	Atrial Fibrillation	0	1	0	0		Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Direct Oral Anticoagulants in Patients with Renal Failure.	A recent survey on the use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) revealed that 43% of patients with atrial fibrillation and renal impairment were potentially overdosed and had a hazard ratio for major bleeding of 2.19. In this review, we analyse and discuss the effect of renal failure on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of DOACs and of strategies proposed to adjust doses according to the level of renal dysfunction. The pharmacokinetic characteristics of available DOACs (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban, betrixaban) differ substantially as regards oral bioavailability, plasma protein binding and the relative involvement of renal and non-renal elimination. In this respect, 80% of dabigatran is excreted as an unchanged drug in urine, whereas edoxaban, rivaroxaban, apixaban and betrixiban are excreted unchanged by, respectively, 50, 33, 27 and 11% of the dose. Therefore, drug exposure (the area under the concentration-time curve, AUC) is expected to increase to differing extents, depending on the residual renal function and the contribution of the kidneys to the excretion of each drug. Our analysis found that the increased AUC in patients with severe renal dysfunction was greater than expected in the case of dabigatran, betrixaban and rivaroxaban, indicating that other pharmacokinetic parameters may be altered besides renal clearance. Although DAOC pharmacodynamics do not seem to be altered by renal diseases (the correlation between plasma levels and anticoagulant effects overlaps that of healthy subjects), renal failure per se is associated with an increased risk of bleeding and thromboembolism. Guidelines on dose adjustments in patients with renal dysfunction have been published by three National Drug Agencies (FDA, EMA, HC), but many of their items do not match one another, reflecting our substantial paucity of knowledge in advanced renal failure. Routine monitoring of DOAC anticoagulant effects or plasma concentrations is not recommended, since no validated therapeutic ranges have been established. However, this approach may be useful in emergency situations such as bleeding or thrombotic events, urgent surgery, pharmacokinetic interactions, etc. We conclude that more experimental work is needed to improve our knowledge of DOAC pharmacology in renal failure and to provide clinicians with valid tools to adjust therapy.
30844552	Rituximab	Immunologic Deficiency Syndromes	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immunoglobulin replacement for secondary immunodeficiency after B-cell targeted therapies in autoimmune rheumatic disease: Systematic literature review.	BACKGROUND: Consensus guidelines are not available for the use of immunoglobulin replacement therapy (IGRT) in patients developing iatrogenic secondary antibody deficiency following B-cell targeted therapy (BCTT) in autoimmune rheumatic disease. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the role of IGRT to manage hypogammaglobulinemia following BCTT in autoimmune rheumatic disease (AIRD). METHODS: Using an agreed search string we performed a systematic literature search on Medline with Pubmed as vendor. We limited the search to English language papers with abstracts published over the last 10 years. Abstracts were screened for original data regarding hypogammaglobulinemia following BCTT and the use of IGRT for hypogammaglobulinemia following BCTT. We also searched current recommendations from national/international organisations including British Society for Rheumatology, UK Department of Health, American College of Rheumatology, and American Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Immunology. RESULTS: 222 abstracts were identified. Eight papers had original relevant data that met our search criteria. These studies were largely retrospective cohort studies with small patient numbers receiving IGRT. The literature highlights the induction of a sustained antibody deficiency, risk factors for hypogammaglobulinemia after BCTT including low baseline serum IgG levels, how to monitor patients for the development of hypogammaglobulinemia and the limited evidence available on intervention thresholds for commencing IGRT. CONCLUSION: The benefit of BCTT needs to be balanced against the risk of inducing a sustained secondary antibody deficiency. Consensus guidelines would be useful to enable appropriate assessment prior to and following BCTT in preventing and diagnosing hypogammaglobulinemia. Definitions for symptomatic hypogammaglobulinemia, intervention thresholds and treatment targets for IGRT, and its cost-effectiveness are required.
30792992	Sodium Chloride	Stroke	0	0	0	0		Evaluation of Pathological Association between Stroke-Related QTL and Salt-Induced Renal Injury in Stroke-Prone Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat.	The stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHRSP) suffers from severe hypertension and hypertensive organ damage such as cerebral stroke and kidney injury under salt-loading. By a quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis between SHRSP and SHR (the stroke-resistant parental strain of SHRSP), two major QTLs for stroke susceptibility were identified on chromosomes 1 and 18 of SHRSP, which were confirmed in congenic strains constructed between SHRSP and SHR. As the progression of renal dysfunction was suggested to be one of the key factors inducing stroke in SHRSP, we examined effects of the stroke-related QTLs on kidney injury using two congenic strains harboring either of SHRSP-derived fragments of chromosomes 1 and 18 in the SHR genome. The congenic strains were challenged with 1% NaCl solution for 4 weeks; measurement of systolic blood pressure and urinary isoprostane level (a marker for oxidative stress) and evaluation of renal injury by quantification of genetic marker expression and histological examination were performed. We found that the congenic rats with SHRSP-derived fragment of chromosome 18 showed more severe renal damage with higher expression of Col1alpha-1 (a genetic marker for renal fibrosis) and higher urinary isoprostane level. In contrast, the fragment of chromosome 1 from SHRSP did not give such effects on SHR. Blood pressure was not greater in either of the congenic strains when compared with SHR. We concluded that the QTL region on chromosome 18 might deteriorate salt-induced renal injury in SHR through a blood pressure-independent mechanism.
30737329	Nitrous Oxide	Diplopia	1	1	0	0	0.0	One month of nitrous oxide abuse causing acute vitamin B ((12)) deficiency with severe neuropsychiatric symptoms.	A 21-year-old university student studying abroad in the USA presented to the emergency department with double vision, lower extremity weakness with difficulty ambulating and other neuropsychiatric symptoms. MRI of the brain and spinal cord were normal. Vitamin B(12) was 78 pg/mL (58 pmol/L, reference 211-911 pg/mL). The patient had been using nitrous oxide capsules used for whipped cream recharging, which she obtained from other students, a few times daily for a month for the purpose of anxiety relief. The patient was not a vegan or vegetarian. The patient was treated with intramuscular vitamin B(12) repletion with partial resolution of neurologic symptoms and discharged on vitamin B(12) supplementation.
29594793	Riboflavin	Keratitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sterile keratitis after uneventful corneal collagen cross-linking in a patient with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome.	PURPOSE: To report on a keratoconus (KC) patient with Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome (ARS) who developed sterile keratitis after accelerated corneal collagen cross-linking (CXL). METHODS: An 18-year-old patient with ARS and KC who had previously undergone intrastromal ring segment implantation underwent accelerated CXL (9 mW/cm(2) UVA intensity for 10 min). RESULTS: After uneventful surgery, the patient presented with severe photophobia, redness of the eye, and decreased vision 72 h following the procedure. Slit-lamp examination showed anterior multiple superficial stromal infiltrates in the central cornea with an overlying epithelium defect. Due to the lack of pain and absence of any pathogen from corneal samples, a diagnosis of sterile keratitis was considered. A combination of topical antibiotic and corticosteroid regimen was administered. Three months after CXL slit-lamp examination showed a mild stromal scar overlying the central cornea, which did not decrease visual acuity. CONCLUSIONS: The mechanism by which the sterile keratitis occurs following CXL remains unclear. For our case, the reason of post-CXL sterile keratitis could be considered as an immune response due to the staphylococcal antigens. Furthermore, the possible developmental disturbance of corneal stroma in ARS might have contributed to the development of post-CXL sterile keratitis.
30656556	Clopidogrel	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	1	0	0		The clinical effects of CYP2C19 *2 allele frequency on Palestinian patients receiving clopidogrel after percutaneous coronary intervention.	BackgroundCYP2C19 loss-of-function polymorphic alleles (*2 and *3) have been documented to impair clopidogrel metabolism, and represent a risk factor for major adverse cardiac events. CYP2C19 polymorphism exhibits marked ethnic heterogeneity. Objective To determine the prevalence of CYP2C19 *2 and *3 alleles in a cohort of Palestinian patients managed with percutaneous coronary intervention and dual antiplatelet therapy, and to determine their role in causing major adverse cardiac events. Setting The blood samples were collected at the European Gaza Hospital, and the molecular techniques performed at the molecular genetics laboratory of the Islamic university of Gaza. Method The frequency of CYP2C19 *2 and *3 alleles was determined in 110 patients managed with percutaneous coronary intervention and clopidogrel. Genotyping was performed by PCR-RFLP. Personal and clinical data was obtained from patient record and 6-month follow-up for major adverse cardiac events. Main outcome measureCYP2C19 genotype, personal and clinical data and incidence of major adverse cardiac events. Results The frequency of CYP2C19 *1, *2 and *3 alleles was 82.3%, 15.5% and 2.3% respectively. Genotyping analysis showed that, 67.3% were homozygotes for CYP2C19 *1, 27.3% were *1/*2, 2.7% with *1/*3 genotype, 1.8% were *2/*3 and 0.9% were *2/*2. These frequencies were consistent with those of Caucasian populations. According to this study the poor metabolizers phenotype frequency was 2.7%, which is in the same range reported in Caucasians (2-5%) and lower than Oriental populations 13-23%. A strong significant relation was found between major adverse cardiac events and carrying the variant allele CYP2C19 *2 (P = 0.001). On the other hand, there was no significant relation between major adverse cardiac events and carrying the variant allele CYP2C19 *3 (P = 0.324). Conclusion The CYP2C19 *2 allele is relatively common in our population, and its associated reduced metabolic activity deserves attention as it leads to an increased incidence of major adverse cardiac events in the follow-up of patients receiving clopidogrel.
30535006	Nivolumab	Vasculitis	1	0	0	0		Combined checkpoint inhibitor-associated myocarditis and pulmonary vasculitis mimicking acute pulmonary embolism.	
30069868	Eicosapentaenoic Acid	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Resolvin E1, but not resolvins E2 and E3, promotes fMLF-induced ROS generation in human neutrophils.	E-series resolvins are biosynthesized from eicosapentaenoic acid during the resolution phase of acute inflammation and enhance inflammation resolution. However, the role of E-series resolvins in inflammation resolution is not yet known. Herein, we show that in human polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs), resolvin E1 (RvE1) selectively enhances reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation induced by N-formylmethionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine. The RvE1-mediated enhancement is eliminated by a pan-antagonist of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) receptors, LY255283, or an NADPH oxidase inhibitor, diphenyleneiodonium. Thus, RvE1 enhances NADPH oxidase-mediated ROS generation via LTB4 receptors. Unlike RvE1, resolvins E2 and E3 do not show such activation of PMNs. Our findings suggest that RvE1 contributes to regulation of ROS generation, in accordance with the inflammatory state of the host.
29717400	Crizotinib	Arrhythmias, Cardiac	1	1	0	0	0.0	Crizotinib-induced simultaneous multiple cardiac toxicities.	Crizotinib is a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has several targets, including c-ros oncogene 1 and the MET proto-oncogene. Considering its known cardiac toxicity, bradycardia is often investigated following treatment with crizotinib. Our patients had bradycardia, QT prolongation, ventricular rhythm, ventricular fibrillation, and pericarditis simultaneously. The cardiotoxicity of crizotinib can sometimes be simultaneous; thus, intensive observation is needed.
29717400	Crizotinib	Long QT Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Crizotinib-induced simultaneous multiple cardiac toxicities.	Crizotinib is a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has several targets, including c-ros oncogene 1 and the MET proto-oncogene. Considering its known cardiac toxicity, bradycardia is often investigated following treatment with crizotinib. Our patients had bradycardia, QT prolongation, ventricular rhythm, ventricular fibrillation, and pericarditis simultaneously. The cardiotoxicity of crizotinib can sometimes be simultaneous; thus, intensive observation is needed.
29717400	Crizotinib	Pericarditis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Crizotinib-induced simultaneous multiple cardiac toxicities.	Crizotinib is a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has several targets, including c-ros oncogene 1 and the MET proto-oncogene. Considering its known cardiac toxicity, bradycardia is often investigated following treatment with crizotinib. Our patients had bradycardia, QT prolongation, ventricular rhythm, ventricular fibrillation, and pericarditis simultaneously. The cardiotoxicity of crizotinib can sometimes be simultaneous; thus, intensive observation is needed.
28960092	Levofloxacin	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Appraisal of the cardiovascular risks of azithromycin: an observational analysis.	AIM: To assess the association of cardiovascular mortality in patients prescribed azithromycin compared with patients prescribed alternative antibiotics in an outpatient setting. METHODS: This study was a retrospective observational analysis using the South Carolina Medicaid claims and pharmacy databases over the years from 2000 to 2011 housed at the Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office. Study antibiotics included azithromycin, amoxicillin, clindamycin, clarithromycin and quinolones (levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin), and excluded patients at a high risk of death from causes other than the study antibiotics. This study used both matching and regression adjustment with propensity scores to reduce possible bias in the estimated treatment (group) effect from confounders. RESULTS: The total number of prescriptions evaluated in the study include: 283,743 azithromycin; 143,191 amoxicillin; 52,714 clindamycin; 38,133 clarithromycin and 49,734 for the quinolones. After propensity score weighting, cardiac deaths per million within the first 5 days were: 84.6 for azithromycin, 78.3 for clarithromycin, 69.4 for amoxicillin, 61.6 for quinolones and 15.0 for clindamycin. Our multivariate models reveal that the study antibiotics' (amoxicillin, clindamycin, clarithromycin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin) mortality rates are not statistically different from azithromycin in any time interval (days: 0-5, 6-10, 0-10 and 0-30). In comparison with previous studies, the results are consistent in Amoxicillin. In the first 5 and 10 days, it is associated with lower odds of cardiovascular death than azithromycin (5 days: odds ratio [OR]: 0.70 [95% CI: 0.25-1.99]; 10 days: OR: 0.92 [95% CI: 0.39-2.14]). However, we find no statistically significant difference between the two antibiotics. CONCLUSION: Our study shows that the odds of cardiovascular mortality between azithromycin and other antibiotics are not statistically significantly different and previous published findings may not be applicable to the general population. Additionally our results suggest that while we cannot rule out the increased risk of cardiovascular death from azithromycin in patients at low risk of death, the risk may not be as large initial studies suggest. Further research is needed to define the population at greatest risk.
28960092	Moxifloxacin	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Appraisal of the cardiovascular risks of azithromycin: an observational analysis.	AIM: To assess the association of cardiovascular mortality in patients prescribed azithromycin compared with patients prescribed alternative antibiotics in an outpatient setting. METHODS: This study was a retrospective observational analysis using the South Carolina Medicaid claims and pharmacy databases over the years from 2000 to 2011 housed at the Revenue and Fiscal Affairs Office. Study antibiotics included azithromycin, amoxicillin, clindamycin, clarithromycin and quinolones (levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin), and excluded patients at a high risk of death from causes other than the study antibiotics. This study used both matching and regression adjustment with propensity scores to reduce possible bias in the estimated treatment (group) effect from confounders. RESULTS: The total number of prescriptions evaluated in the study include: 283,743 azithromycin; 143,191 amoxicillin; 52,714 clindamycin; 38,133 clarithromycin and 49,734 for the quinolones. After propensity score weighting, cardiac deaths per million within the first 5 days were: 84.6 for azithromycin, 78.3 for clarithromycin, 69.4 for amoxicillin, 61.6 for quinolones and 15.0 for clindamycin. Our multivariate models reveal that the study antibiotics' (amoxicillin, clindamycin, clarithromycin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin) mortality rates are not statistically different from azithromycin in any time interval (days: 0-5, 6-10, 0-10 and 0-30). In comparison with previous studies, the results are consistent in Amoxicillin. In the first 5 and 10 days, it is associated with lower odds of cardiovascular death than azithromycin (5 days: odds ratio [OR]: 0.70 [95% CI: 0.25-1.99]; 10 days: OR: 0.92 [95% CI: 0.39-2.14]). However, we find no statistically significant difference between the two antibiotics. CONCLUSION: Our study shows that the odds of cardiovascular mortality between azithromycin and other antibiotics are not statistically significantly different and previous published findings may not be applicable to the general population. Additionally our results suggest that while we cannot rule out the increased risk of cardiovascular death from azithromycin in patients at low risk of death, the risk may not be as large initial studies suggest. Further research is needed to define the population at greatest risk.
30039854	Caffeine	Skin Ulcer	1	1	0	0	0.0	Multiple perianal ulcers due to suppositories.	We report a case of long-standing inexplicable perianal ulcers. After exclusion of an inflammatory, infectious or neoplastic origin, a thorough personal history revealed that for many years the patient had been using analgesic suppositories containing indomethacin, caffeine, and prochlorperazine dimaleate, four to five times a week, for migraine. On stopping the suppositories, there was complete healing within 12 weeks. We hypothesize that vasoconstriction and vascular damage were the pathogenetic mechanisms behind the perianal ulcers.
30039854	Indomethacin	Anus Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Multiple perianal ulcers due to suppositories.	We report a case of long-standing inexplicable perianal ulcers. After exclusion of an inflammatory, infectious or neoplastic origin, a thorough personal history revealed that for many years the patient had been using analgesic suppositories containing indomethacin, caffeine, and prochlorperazine dimaleate, four to five times a week, for migraine. On stopping the suppositories, there was complete healing within 12 weeks. We hypothesize that vasoconstriction and vascular damage were the pathogenetic mechanisms behind the perianal ulcers.
29776917	Tacrolimus	Bipolar Disorder	1	1	0	0	0.0	Treatment-Refractory Mania with Psychosis in a Post-Transplant Patient on Tacrolimus: A Case Report.	Bipolar affective disorder type I imparts significant morbidity and disease burden in the population. It is characterized by occurrence of one or more manic episodes which may be preceded or followed by a depressive or hypomanic phase. About half of these manic episodes are characterized by the presence of psychotic features. The condition is further complicated when the patient has multiple comorbid conditions. We report here the case of a Caucasian woman, aged 66 years, previously diagnosed with Bipolar disorder who developed treatment refractory mania with psychotic feature after being on the immunosuppressive agent, tacrolimus, after kidney transplantation.
29610119	Certolizumab Pegol	Erythema	1	0	0	0		Biologic Agent-Associated Cutaneous Adverse Events: A Single Center Experience.	Biologic agents are regarded as an effective treatment for a variety of autoimmune diseases. These drugs have an acceptable safety and tolerability profile, although an increasing number of autoimmune conditions have been reported with their use. Additionally, a variety of cutaneous diseases have been associated with their use. Here we report our experience of adverse cutaneous events with the use of biologic agents. An alternative explanation for patients presenting with adverse cutaneous events including drug interactions must be carefully investigated.
29610119	Etanercept	Erythema	1	0	0	0		Biologic Agent-Associated Cutaneous Adverse Events: A Single Center Experience.	Biologic agents are regarded as an effective treatment for a variety of autoimmune diseases. These drugs have an acceptable safety and tolerability profile, although an increasing number of autoimmune conditions have been reported with their use. Additionally, a variety of cutaneous diseases have been associated with their use. Here we report our experience of adverse cutaneous events with the use of biologic agents. An alternative explanation for patients presenting with adverse cutaneous events including drug interactions must be carefully investigated.
29610119	Etanercept	Vasculitis, Leukocytoclastic, Cutaneous	1	0	0	0		Biologic Agent-Associated Cutaneous Adverse Events: A Single Center Experience.	Biologic agents are regarded as an effective treatment for a variety of autoimmune diseases. These drugs have an acceptable safety and tolerability profile, although an increasing number of autoimmune conditions have been reported with their use. Additionally, a variety of cutaneous diseases have been associated with their use. Here we report our experience of adverse cutaneous events with the use of biologic agents. An alternative explanation for patients presenting with adverse cutaneous events including drug interactions must be carefully investigated.
30994776	Carbamide Peroxide	Dentin Sensitivity	0	0	0	0		Effect of dental bleaching on pulp oxygen saturation in maxillary central incisors - a randomized clinical trial.	OBJECTIVE: To assess pulp oxygen saturation levels (SaO2) in maxillary central incisors after dental bleaching. MATERIALS AND METHODS: 80 participants (160 teeth) were randomly allocated to four groups: G1 In-office bleaching with two applications of 35% hydrogen peroxide (HP) (20 minutes), followed by at-home bleaching with 10% carbamide peroxide (CP) (2 hours/day for 16 days); G2 - Same protocol as G1, plus desensitizing toothpaste; G3 - In-office bleaching with 35% HP and one application of placebo gel (20 minutes), followed by at-home bleaching with 10% CP (2 hours/day for 16 days); and G4 - Same protocol as G3, plus desensitizing toothpaste. Pulp SaO2 levels were measured before (T0) and immediately after (T1) in-office bleaching; on the 5th (T2), 8th (T3), 12th (T4), and 16th days of at-home bleaching (T5); and on the 7th (T6) and 30th (T7) days. Mean (SD) pulp SaO2 levels were compared within groups by generalized estimating equations (GEE) and Student's t-test (P<0.05). RESULTS: Mean pulp SaO2 at T0 was 84.29% in G1, 84.38% in G2, 84.79% in G3, and 85.83% in G4. At T1, these values decreased to 81.96%, 82.06%, 82.19%, and 81.15% in G1, G2, G3, and G4 respectively, with significant difference in G4 (P<0.05). During home bleaching, pulp SaO2 levels varied in all groups, with 86.55%, 86.60%, 85.71%, and 87.15% means at T7 for G1, G2, G3, and G4, respectively; G2 presented significant difference (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Pulp SaO2 level in maxillary central incisors was similar at baseline, reducing immediately after in-office bleaching, regardless of using desensitizing toothpaste and increasing at 30 days after dental bleaching.
30804141	Zoledronic Acid	Jaw Diseases	0	1	1	1	1.0	ACE Gene Variant Causing High Blood Pressure May Be Associated With Medication-related Jaw Osteonecrosis.	The association of the high blood pressure D variant of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) gene with medication-related jaw osteonecrosis (MRONJ) is described in two Greek patients. The first patient, a 73-year-old man, took zolendronate, 4 mg/100 ml IV once per month for two years for prostate cancer and bone metastases. Three months after drug discontinuation, extraction of the first premolar was performed. After the intervention, he suffered from osteonecrosis of the mandible. He presented with hypertension and genetic testing revealed that he was homozygous for the high blood pressure D variant of the ACE gene. The second patient, a 65 years old woman, took denosumab, 120 mg subcutaneously once per month for 6 months for possible bone metastases from breast cancer. Three months after extraction of the first molar, she suffered from MRONJ. He also presented with hypertension and genetic testing revealed that she had the high blood pressure D variant of the ACE gene in a heterozygous state, which moderately predisposes to hypertension. To our knowledge, this is the first report indicating that genetic predisposition to hypertension may increase risk for MRONJ.
30661105	Cannabidiol	Perceptual Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	A randomised controlled trial of vaporised Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol alone and in combination in frequent and infrequent cannabis users: acute intoxication effects.	Access to cannabis and cannabinoid products is increasing worldwide for recreational and medicinal use. Two primary compounds within cannabis plant matter, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD), are both psychoactive, but only THC is considered intoxicating. There is significant interest in potential therapeutic properties of these cannabinoids and of CBD in particular. Some research has suggested that CBD may ameliorate adverse effects of THC, but this may be dose dependent as other evidence suggests possible potentiating effects of THC by low doses of CBD. We conducted a randomised placebo controlled trial to examine the acute effects of these compounds alone and in combination when administered by vaporisation to frequent and infrequent cannabis users. Participants (n = 36; 31 male) completed 5 drug conditions spaced one week apart, with the following planned contrasts: placebo vs CBD alone (400 mg); THC alone (8 mg) vs THC combined with low (4 mg) or high (400 mg) doses of CBD. Objective (blind observer ratings) and subjective (self-rated) measures of intoxication were the primary outcomes, with additional indices of intoxication examined. CBD showed some intoxicating properties relative to placebo. Low doses of CBD when combined with THC enhanced, while high doses of CBD reduced the intoxicating effects of THC. The enhancement of intoxication by low-dose CBD was particularly prominent in infrequent cannabis users and was consistent across objective and subjective measures. Most effects were significant at p < .0001. These findings are important to consider in terms of recommended proportions of THC and CBD in cannabis plant matter whether used medicinally or recreationally and have implications for novice or less experienced cannabis users.Trial registration: ISRCTN Registry Identifier: ISRCTN24109245.
30314873	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Hypertension	1	1	0	0	0.0	Facial nerve palsy associated with atomoxetine-induced hypertension.	BACKGROUND: Peripheral facial nerve palsy is characterized by unilateral facial paresis due to ipsilateral facial nerve dysfunction. Most cases are idiopathic; however, some have specific etiologies, such as herpesvirus infection, immunological disorders, and hypertension. Atomoxetine is a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This drug is known to cause adverse effects, such as nausea, appetite loss, headache, insomnia, and hypertension. CASE DESCRIPTION: We herein describe a case of sudden-onset right peripheral facial palsy in a 9-year-old Japanese boy. The patient's systolic blood pressure was as high as 200 mmHg, and he was therefore admitted to our hospital for investigation. Extensive surveillance including blood examination; endocrinological testing; imaging studies such as computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and renography; and renal biopsy did not reveal any abnormalities. The patient had ADHD and was under treatment with atomoxetine. We discontinued treatment with atomoxetine; the patient showed gradual improvement. His hypertension and facial palsy resolved. We therefore diagnosed the patient with peripheral facial palsy associated with atomoxetine-induced hypertension. CONCLUSION: Although peripheral facial nerve palsy is usually benign and self-limiting, blood pressure should be monitored in children under treatment with atomoxetine and the possibility of drug-induced hypertension should be considered in order to prevent palsy associated with hypertension.
31141632	Lenalidomide	Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Daratumumab plus Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone for Untreated Myeloma.	BACKGROUND: Lenalidomide plus dexamethasone is a standard treatment for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for autologous stem-cell transplantation. We sought to determine whether the addition of daratumumab would significantly reduce the risk of disease progression or death in this population. METHODS: We randomly assigned 737 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who were ineligible for autologous stem-cell transplantation to receive daratumumab plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone (daratumumab group) or lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (control group). Treatment was to continue until the occurrence of disease progression or unacceptable side effects. The primary end point was progression-free survival. RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 28.0 months, disease progression or death had occurred in 240 patients (97 of 368 patients [26.4%] in the daratumumab group and 143 of 369 patients [38.8%] in the control group). The estimated percentage of patients who were alive without disease progression at 30 months was 70.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 65.0 to 75.4) in the daratumumab group and 55.6% (95% CI, 49.5 to 61.3) in the control group (hazard ratio for disease progression or death, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.43 to 0.73; P<0.001). The percentage of patients with a complete response or better was 47.6% in the daratumumab group and 24.9% in the control group (P<0.001). A total of 24.2% of the patients in the daratumumab group, as compared with 7.3% of the patients in the control group, had results below the threshold for minimal residual disease (1 tumor cell per 10(5) white cells) (P<0.001). The most common adverse events of grade 3 or 4 were neutropenia (50.0% in the daratumumab group vs. 35.3% in the control group), anemia (11.8% vs. 19.7%), lymphopenia (15.1% vs. 10.7%), and pneumonia (13.7% vs. 7.9%). CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who were ineligible for autologous stem-cell transplantation, the risk of disease progression or death was significantly lower among those who received daratumumab plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone than among those who received lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone. A higher incidence of neutropenia and pneumonia was observed in the daratumumab group. (Funded by Janssen Research and Development; MAIA ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02252172.).
30811149	Hydroxychloroquine	Epstein-Barr Virus Infections	1	1	1	1	1.0	Pustular DRESS Syndrome Secondary to Hydroxychloroquine With EBV Reactivation.	Background: Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome) or drug-induced hypersensitivity (DIHS) is a rare and feared complication of frequently used medications such as anticonvulsants, sulfonamides, and allopurinol. To date, no reports of hydroxychloroquine-induced pustular DRESS syndrome have been associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation nor imitated other cutaneous adverse drug reactions as in our patient. Observation: A 56-year-old female presented with a diffuse cutaneous eruption involving the face, trunk, extremities, and palms approximately two weeks after the initiation of hydroxychloroquine therapy for a suspected Sjogren's-like process with inflammatory cervical lymphadenopathy. Skin examination demonstrated diffuse erythematous and edematous papules and pustules on her dorsal and volar hands and fingers, arms, legs, chest, abdomen, back, scalp, and face. In many areas, lesions coalesced into plaques with overlying pustules, scale, and crust. Additional notable exam findings included centralized facial edema, edema of the hands, and cervical lymphadenopathy. Laboratory workup revealed leukocytosis, peripheral eosinophilia, elevated transaminases, and a negative autoimmune workup; however, serology demonstrated EBV reactivation. Histologic assessment displayed a spongiotic dermatitis with eosinophils, superficial perivascular dermatitis, as well as corneal, subcorneal, and intraepidermal neutrophilic microabscesses, mimicking acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis or pustular psoriasis, even though clinical evaluation suggested DRESS syndrome. Conclusion: To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of hydroxychloroquine-induced pustular DRESS syndrome in the context of EBV reactivation. Given hydroxychloroquine's immunomodulatory function and association with other cutaneous manifestations, our patient represents a significant diagnostic challenge. Therefore, this case highlights the importance of knowledge regarding overlapping features, histologically and clinically, among acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, pustular psoriasis, and DRESS syndrome. J Drugs Dermatol. 2019;18(2):207-209.
30025517	Sugammadex	Postoperative Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Postoperative complications with neuromuscular blocking drugs and/or reversal agents in obstructive sleep apnea patients: a systematic review.	BACKGROUND: Neuromuscular blocking drugs (NMBD) are administered intra-operatively to facilitate intubation and to achieve muscle relaxation for surgical procedures. Incomplete reversal of NMBD can lead to adverse events in the postoperative period. Patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) may be at higher risk of complications related to the use of NMBD. The objectives of this systematic review were to determine whether: 1) OSA patients are at higher risk of postoperative complications from the use of NMBD than non-OSA patients, and 2) the choice of NMBD reversal agent affects the risk of postoperative complications in OSA patients. METHODS: A literature search of multiple databases was conducted up to April 2017. The inclusion criteria were: (1) adult surgical patients (>/=18 years old) with OSA diagnosed by polysomnography, or history, or suspected by screening questionnaire; (2) patients who were given NMBD and/or NMBD reversal agents intraoperatively; (3) reports on postoperative adverse events, particularly respiratory events were available; (4) published studies were in English; and (5) RCTs or observational cohort studies. The quality of evidence was determined by the Oxford Center for Evidence Based Medicine levels of evidence. RESULTS: Out of 4123 studies, five studies (2 RCTs and 3 observational studies) including 1126 patients were deemed eligible. These studies were heterogeneous precluding a meta-analysis of the results. Two of three studies (1 RCT, 2 observational studies) reported that OSA patients given NMBD may be at higher risk of developing postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) like hypoxemia, residual neuromuscular blockade or respiratory failure compared to non-OSA patients. Two studies (1 RCT, 1 observational study) reported that OSA patients who were reversed with sugammadex vs. neostigmine had less PPCs and chest radiographic changes, but the quality of the included studies was Oxford level of evidence: low to moderate. CONCLUSIONS: OSA patients who receive intraoperative NMBD may be at higher risk for postoperative hypoxemia, respiratory failure and residual neuromuscular blockade compared to non-OSA patients. There is some, albeit very limited evidence that NMBD reversal with sugammadex may be associated with less PPCs than neostigmine in patients with OSA. More high-quality studies are needed.
29907236	Povidone-Iodine	Colorectal Neoplasms	0	0	0	0		Peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine solution in colorectal cancer-induced rats.	BACKGROUND: Although peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine (PVPI) is frequently performed after surgery on the gastrointestinal tract, the effects of PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier are unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of abdominal irrigation with PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier in a colorectal cancer (CRC)-induced rat model. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The CRC model was induced in rats with azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate. Next, a total of 24 male CRC-induced rats were randomly divided into three groups (n = 8): (1) a sham-operated group, (2) an NS group (peritoneal lavage 0.9% NaCl), and (3) a PVPI group (peritoneal lavage with 0.45%-0.55% PVPI). The mean arterial pressure was continuously monitored throughout the experiment. The levels of plasma endotoxin and D-lactate, blood gases, and protein concentration were measured. The ultrastructural changes of the epithelial tight junctions were observed by transmission electron microscopy. RESULTS: The mean arterial pressure after peritoneal lavage was lower in the PVPI group than that in the NS group. The protein concentration and levels of endotoxin and D-lactate were higher in the PVPI group than they were in the PVPI group. In addition, PVPI treatment resulted in a markedly severe metabolic acidosis and intestinal mucosal injury compared with NS rats. CONCLUSIONS: Peritoneal lavage with PVPI dramatically compromises the integrity of the intestinal mucosa barrier and causes endotoxin shock in CRC rats. It is unsafe for clinical applications to include peritoneal lavage with PVPI in colorectal operations.
29907236	Povidone-Iodine	Neoplasms, Experimental	0	0	0	0		Peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine solution in colorectal cancer-induced rats.	BACKGROUND: Although peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine (PVPI) is frequently performed after surgery on the gastrointestinal tract, the effects of PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier are unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of abdominal irrigation with PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier in a colorectal cancer (CRC)-induced rat model. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The CRC model was induced in rats with azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate. Next, a total of 24 male CRC-induced rats were randomly divided into three groups (n = 8): (1) a sham-operated group, (2) an NS group (peritoneal lavage 0.9% NaCl), and (3) a PVPI group (peritoneal lavage with 0.45%-0.55% PVPI). The mean arterial pressure was continuously monitored throughout the experiment. The levels of plasma endotoxin and D-lactate, blood gases, and protein concentration were measured. The ultrastructural changes of the epithelial tight junctions were observed by transmission electron microscopy. RESULTS: The mean arterial pressure after peritoneal lavage was lower in the PVPI group than that in the NS group. The protein concentration and levels of endotoxin and D-lactate were higher in the PVPI group than they were in the PVPI group. In addition, PVPI treatment resulted in a markedly severe metabolic acidosis and intestinal mucosal injury compared with NS rats. CONCLUSIONS: Peritoneal lavage with PVPI dramatically compromises the integrity of the intestinal mucosa barrier and causes endotoxin shock in CRC rats. It is unsafe for clinical applications to include peritoneal lavage with PVPI in colorectal operations.
29907236	Povidone-Iodine	Shock, Septic	0	0	0	0		Peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine solution in colorectal cancer-induced rats.	BACKGROUND: Although peritoneal lavage with povidone-iodine (PVPI) is frequently performed after surgery on the gastrointestinal tract, the effects of PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier are unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of abdominal irrigation with PVPI on the intestinal epithelial barrier in a colorectal cancer (CRC)-induced rat model. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The CRC model was induced in rats with azoxymethane and dextran sodium sulfate. Next, a total of 24 male CRC-induced rats were randomly divided into three groups (n = 8): (1) a sham-operated group, (2) an NS group (peritoneal lavage 0.9% NaCl), and (3) a PVPI group (peritoneal lavage with 0.45%-0.55% PVPI). The mean arterial pressure was continuously monitored throughout the experiment. The levels of plasma endotoxin and D-lactate, blood gases, and protein concentration were measured. The ultrastructural changes of the epithelial tight junctions were observed by transmission electron microscopy. RESULTS: The mean arterial pressure after peritoneal lavage was lower in the PVPI group than that in the NS group. The protein concentration and levels of endotoxin and D-lactate were higher in the PVPI group than they were in the PVPI group. In addition, PVPI treatment resulted in a markedly severe metabolic acidosis and intestinal mucosal injury compared with NS rats. CONCLUSIONS: Peritoneal lavage with PVPI dramatically compromises the integrity of the intestinal mucosa barrier and causes endotoxin shock in CRC rats. It is unsafe for clinical applications to include peritoneal lavage with PVPI in colorectal operations.
29384412	Prednisone	Afibrinogenemia	1	0	0	0		Severe hypofibrinogenemia associated with imatinib and prednisone therapy in Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia.	
29109487	Nivolumab	Inflammatory Bowel Diseases	1	0	0	0		Inflammatory Bowel Disease in an Elderly Woman After Nivolumab Administration.	
30415001	Piperacillin, Tazobactam Drug Combination	Acute Kidney Injury	1	0	0	0		Impact of piperacillin/tazobactam on nephrotoxicity in patients with Gram-negative bacteraemia.	Piperacillin/tazobactam (TZP) has been associated with nephrotoxicity in patients receiving vancomycin. Its impact on nephrotoxicity in patients with Gram-negative bacteraemia (GNB) is unclear. This study evaluated the impact of TZP on nephrotoxicity in patients with GNB. This retrospective cohort included patients aged >/=18 years receiving >/=48 h of therapy for bacteraemia due to Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter, Klebsiella, Acinetobacter or Stenotrophomonas maltophilia from 1/01/2008-8/31/2011. Patients with baseline serum creatinine (SCr) >/=3.5 mg/dL, polymicrobial infection or recurrent bacteraemia were excluded. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a >/=0.5 mg/dL increase in SCr or >/=50% increase from baseline for >/=2 consecutive days. Any variable demonstrating a 10% change in exposure effect was retained in the final model. All variables biologically reasonable causes of nephrotoxicity were also considered for inclusion. The median age of the cohort (n = 292) was 76 years; 38.0% had a cancer diagnosis and ICU residence was common (21.9%). There was no difference in nephrotoxicity incidence based on days of TZP received (0 days, 13.6%; 1-2 days, 14.7%; 3-4 days, 6.9%; >/=5 days, 16.7%; P = 0.71). In multivariable analysis, baseline SCr, total body weight and vasopressor use were independently associated with nephrotoxicity. Duration of TZP was not associated with nephrotoxicity in multivariable analysis (1-2 days, OR = 0.91, 95% CI 0.39-2.12; 3-4 days, OR = 0.48, 95% CI 0.10-2.46; >/=5 days, OR = 0.57, 95% CI 0.11-3.02). In this cohort of GNB patients, duration of TZP was not associated with nephrotoxicity.
30021507	Lidocaine	Constipation	1	0	0	0		Factors associated with intravenous lidocaine in pediatric patients undergoing laparoscopic appendectomy - a retrospective, single-centre experience.	BACKGROUND: Due to its potential beneficial effects, intra- and postoperative application of intravenous lidocaine has become increasingly accepted over the last couple of years, e.g. in patients undergoing laparoscopic surgical procedures. Based on its beneficial properties, lidocaine was introduced to the standard of care for all pediatric laparoscopic procedures in our institution in mid-2016. In contrast to adult care, scarce data is available regarding the use of perioperative intravenous lidocaine administration in children undergoing laparoscopic procedures, such as an appendectomy. METHODS: Retrospective analysis of all pediatric patients undergoing laparoscopic appendectomy at the University Children's Hospital Zurich in 2016. Perioperative data, as recorded in the electronic patient data management system, were evaluated for any signs of systemic lidocaine toxicity (neurological and cardiovascular), behavioral deterioration, as well as for hemodynamic instability. Additionally, the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting, administration of pain rescue medication, time to hospital discharge and to first bowel movement, as well as any postoperative complications were recorded. Starting on 01/07/2016, all patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery received intravenous lidocaine (1.5 mg/kg body weight (BW) bolus after induction of anesthesia followed by continuous infusion of 1.5 mg/kgBW/h). These patients were then compared to children without lidocaine administration who had undergone laparoscopic appendectomy between 01/01/2016 and 30/06/2016. RESULTS: Data of 116 patients was analyzed. Of these, 60 patients received lidocaine. No signs of systemic toxicity, neurologic impairment or circulatory disturbances were noted in any of these patients. A (non-significant) difference in the incidence of emergence delirium was observed (0 cases in the lidocaine group vs. 4 cases in the control group, p = 0.05). CONCLUSION: This retrospective analysis did not reveal any adverse effects in pediatric patients receiving intravenous lidocaine for laparoscopic appendectomy under general anesthesia. However, further trials investigating beneficial effects as well as pharmacokinetic properties of intravenous lidocaine in children are required.
29713855	Colchicine	Edema	1	1	1	1	1.0	Case report: acute hydrops and spontaneous corneal perforation in a patient with keratoconus treated with colchicine for familial Mediterranean fever.	PURPOSE: To report a rare case of spontaneous corneal perforation after hydrops in keratoconus patients who suffer from familial Mediterranean fever and was treated systemically with Colchicine. METHODS: Case report. RESULTS: We report a case of a 30-year-old male with keratoconus and familial Mediterranean fever treated with colchicine, presented with acute hydrops in his left eye, which progressed to a spontaneous corneal perforation. Attempts to treat the perforation with cyanoacrylate glue failed, and he underwent penetrating keratoplasty with an excellent visual outcome. CONCLUSION: Colchicine treatment may have had a role in the pathogenesis of this rare case.
29562843	Irinotecan	Dysarthria	1	1	0	1	0.0	Irinotecan-associated dysarthria: A single institution case series with management implications in patients with gastrointestinal malignancies.	Irinotecan (Camptosar((c)), CPT-11), a topoisomerase I inhibitor, is a commonly used cytotoxic chemotherapeutic in the treatment of multiple malignancies, particularly of gastrointestinal origin. Dysarthria secondary to irinotecan has been described as a rare side effect in a few case reports with limited data to recommend appropriate management. We describe herein a large single institution experience of patients with gastrointestinal malignancies who experienced dysarthria while being treated with irinotecan-based chemotherapy regimens (FOLFIRINOX or FOLFIRI+/-bevacizumab). Eighteen patients developed neurological manifestations during irinotecan infusion with the majority ( n = 17) developing dysarthria. Patients also experienced other known side effects including cholinergic effects (abdominal bloating, diarrhea, facial flushing, diaphoresis, and rhinorrhea), nausea, fatigue, perioral paresthesia and musculoskeletal discomfort. The dysarthria occurred as early as with the first infusion of irinotecan ( n = 9), but several patients did not develop symptoms until subsequent infusions (range, 1-6). Dose alterations of irinotecan did not obviously impact the reccurrence or severity of dysarthria. Management strategies included close observation, atropine, slower irinotecan infusion rate, and reassurance. Dysarthria resolved without consequence in all patients within hours of completion of the infusion. Oncologists and pharmacists should be aware of irinotecan-associated dysarthria as a rare, self-limited phenomenon with no long-term sequelae, and appropriately counsel patients and infusion nurses to avoid inadvertently withholding potentially beneficial therapy for patients with gastrointestinal malignancies.
29498323	Imatinib Mesylate	Acne Vulgaris	1	1	0	0	1.0	Cystic acne due to imatinib therapy for chronic myelocytic leukemia.	Imatinib mesylate is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of several malignancies. Its use, however, is associated with a number of toxic effects including adverse cutaneous reactions. Herein, we present a case of facial cystic acne in a patient receiving imatinib therapy for chronic myelocytic leukemia. This side effect resolved with cessation of therapy. To the best of our knowledge, this clinical entity has never been previously reported in the medical literature.
29145556	Ipilimumab	Choroid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Combination Ipilimumab and Nivolumab for Metastatic Melanoma Associated With Ciliochoroidal Effusion and Exudative Retinal Detachment.	
29145556	Ipilimumab	Retinal Detachment	1	0	0	0		Combination Ipilimumab and Nivolumab for Metastatic Melanoma Associated With Ciliochoroidal Effusion and Exudative Retinal Detachment.	
29145556	Nivolumab	Choroid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Combination Ipilimumab and Nivolumab for Metastatic Melanoma Associated With Ciliochoroidal Effusion and Exudative Retinal Detachment.	
31061347	Oseltamivir	Hypothermia	0	1	0	0		[Hypothermic Action of Oseltamivir Not Dependent on Its Anti-influenza Virus Action].	Although the anti-influenza virus drug oseltamivir ameliorates the fever of influenza, adverse events related to its hypothermic effect have been reported. We found that oseltamivir causes dose-dependent hypothermia in normal mice, and have been studying the pharmacological mechanisms responsible for 12 years. Oseltamivir blocks nicotinic cholinergic transmission at sympathetic ganglia and reduces sympathetic modulation of brown adipose tissue (BAT), a heat generator. Oseltamivir was found to target the ion channels of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, as demonstrated by patch clamp experiments with cells expressing the human alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptor. Metabolized oseltamivir carboxylate, which inhibits the influenza virus neuraminidase, did not elicit hypothermia and ion channel suppression. Body temperature was decreased by intracerebroventricular administration of oseltamivir. Because this hypothermic effect was inhibited by dopamine D(2) receptor blockade, it was suggested that oseltamivir centrally stimulates the D(2) receptor. In Japan, the package inserts for oseltamivir and amantadine indicate very similar adverse neuropsychiatric reactions for the two drugs (abnormal behavior, consciousness disturbance, convulsion, delirium, delusion, hallucination). A literature search revealed that in some previous studies, oseltamivir and amantadine were shown to block the ion channel systems and activate the dopaminergic nervous system via several mechanisms. Therefore the similarity of the adverse reactions elicited by oseltamivir and amantadine was considered attributable to their similar pharmacological effects.
31005502	Nivolumab	Thyroid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence of thyroid dysfunctions during treatment with nivolumab for non-small cell lung cancer: Retrospective study of 105 patients.	"INTRODUCTION: Immunotherapy is a standard not only in second line but also in first line treatment in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and other tumors. Thyroid dysfunctions are the most common endocrine toxicities. OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of thyroid dysfunctions during treatment with a PD-1 monoclonal antibody (nivolumab) in patients with NSCLC. METHODS: Retrospective study of patients treated with nivolumab for NSCLC between May 2015 and December 2016; euthyroidism within the 3 months preceding immunotherapy; monitoring of thyroid function tests until stopping nivolumab, death or February 2017. Patients treated with levothyroxine, amiodarone or another immunotherapy were excluded. RESULTS: Among 183 patients treated, 105 fullfilled the inclusion criteria (72 males, median age: 61 years [range: 41-80]). Fifteen patients (14.3%) experienced a thyroid dysfunction; among them, compared to the ""control"" group (n=90), we found more females (53.3% vs. 27.8%; P=0.07), and younger patients (median age: 56 years vs. 62 years; P=0.02). Thirteen patients had thyrotoxicosis (median onset: 8 weeks), and then hypothyroidism was observed in 5 patients. Isolated hypothyroidism was rare (n=2) and late (median: 30 weeks). Three patients had anti-TPO antibodies. Three patients discontinued immunotherapy transiently due to thyroid dysfunctions. After a median follow-up of 9 months [95% CI, 7.5-10.3], one patient (6.7%) in the ""thyroid dysfunctions"" group and 30 patients (33.3%) in the ""control"" group died, with a trend toward a higher overall survival in the ""thyroid dysfunctions"" group (HR: 0.16 [95% CI, 0.02-1.15]; P=0.07). CONCLUSION: Thyroid dysfunctions (isolated thyrotoxicosis, biphasic thyroiditis and hypothyroidism) were common, and required patients with NSCLC to be screened during nivolumab therapy."
30853676	Nivolumab	Colitis, Ulcerative	1	1	0	0	0.0	[A case of severe colitis caused by immune checkpoint inhibitor].	A 74-year-old male with lung squamous cell carcinoma who was treated with the anti PD-1 antibody nivolumab developed frequent diarrhea four months after initiating treatment. However, his condition did not improve despite prednisolone at 20mg. Endoscopic examination revealed loss of vascular pattern, erosions, and mucosal friability, resembling ulcerative colitis. Colonoscopy revealed punch-out ulcers in the affected mucosa. Therefore, he was definitively diagnosed with severe colitis caused by immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment and cytomegalovirus colitis. Nivolumab was discontinued, and he was treated with 60mg prednisolone and ganciclovir. Although his colitis improved, he developed pneumonia and died thereafter. This case highlights adverse events that are associated with immune checkpoint inhibitors which should be treated properly.
30826778	Metronidazole	Speech Disorders	1	1	0	0	1.0	Garbled speech: a rare presentation of metronidazole-induced neurotoxicity.	Neurotoxicity is a rare but significant side effect of metronidazole. We present, here, a case of a 34-year-old man, presenting with garbled speech and word finding difficulty. He was taking metronidazole for the last 3 months for stage 4 decubitus ulcers. MRI of the brain showed abnormal signal intensities in the splenium of the corpus callosum and dentate nuclei of the cerebellum. The diagnosis of metronidazole-induced neurotoxicity was made based on MRI findings. The antibiotic was stopped leading to resolution of abnormal MRI findings. We advocate that metronidazole can be associated with severe neurotoxicity, but its prompt cessation leads to better outcome and prognosis.
30819683	Nivolumab	Arthritis, Rheumatoid	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced rheumatoid arthritis: insights into an increasingly common aetiology of polyarthritis.	Nivolumab is an immune checkpoint inhibitor that is used in the treatment of a variety of cancers in the adjuvant or metastatic setting. Adverse effects include non-specific activation of T cells, leading to immune-related adverse events in downstream organs. We present a case of a 36-year-old man with unresectable oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma who developed nivolumab-induced rheumatoid arthritis. As immune checkpoint inhibitor use is becoming widespread in the medical oncology domain, the purpose of this case report is to increase awareness of an increasingly common cause of rheumatic disease and to alert clinicians to consider immunotherapy in their differential diagnosis of polyarthritis. This case also highlights the importance of working in an interdisciplinary manner to enhance cancer care for the patient as well as to increase awareness of the potential adverse effects of immunotherapy in patients with cancer.
30814104	Zoledronic Acid	Osteonecrosis	1	1	0	0	1.0	Uncommon presentation of medication-related osteonecrosis of the mandible in a patient with metastatic prostate cancer.	An 82-year-old man with a background of prostate carcinoma and bony metastases presented with bilateral discharging neck fistulae. Two years prior to presentation, the patient had been treated with intravenous zoledronic acid for 1 year as part of chemotherapy. Intraoral examination revealed extensive bilateral medication-related osteonecrosis, with orocutaneous fistulae within the neck. Treatment comprised removal of loose necrotic bone sequestrae, debridement of the fistulae and long-term administration of antibiotics, vitamin E and pentoxifylline. Four weeks later, the orocutaneous fistulae had healed.
30617460	Arsenic Trioxide	Heart Diseases	1	0	0	0		An Overview on Arsenic Trioxide-Induced Cardiotoxicity.	Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is among the first-line chemotherapeutic drugs used in oncological practice. It has shown substantial efficacy in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukaemia. The clinical use of ATO is hampered due to cardiotoxicity and hence many patients are precluded from receiving this highly effective treatment. An alternative to this would be to use any drug that can ameliorate the cardiotoxic effects and allow exploiting the full therapeutic potential of ATO, with considerable impact on cancer therapy. Generation of reactive oxygen species is involved in a wide range of human diseases, including cancer, cardiovascular, pulmonary and neurological disorders. Hence, agents with the ability to protect against these reactive species may be therapeutically useful. The present review focuses on the beneficial as well as harmful effects of arsenic and ATO, the mechanisms underlying ATO toxicity and the possible ways that can be adopted to circumvent ATO-induced toxicity.
30587739	Polyethylene Glycols	Arteritis	1	0	0	0		[A Case of Arteritis That Developed after Pegfilgrastim Administration during Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer].	A 61-year-old woman presented with metastatic breast cancer in her right lung 4 years and 11 months after the operation for her right breast cancer(HER2 enriched type). Chemotherapy(pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel)were ad- ministered. On day 2 of cycle 2, pegfilgrastim was administered because her neutrophils decreased to 54 cells/mL on day 8 of cycle 1. On day 9 of cycle 2, she developed left neck and chest pain. Moreover, she developed a fever of 39 degrees C on day 14 and visited our hospital. Her WBC and CRP increased to 18,300 cells/mL and 25.48mg/dL, respectively. Computed tomography revealed an increased CT value of the panniculus, around the aorta and left pleural effusion. Ultrasonography of the neck showed a marginal hypoechoic area around the left carotid artery, which corresponded with the pain. Arteritis induced by PFG was suspected. The neck pain and fever almost completely improved 19 days later, and cycle 3 was performed 28 days after cycle 2. To our knowledge, the present case is the second report of arteritis that was suspected to be associated with PFG.
30550036	Ibuprofen	Glomerulosclerosis, Focal Segmental	1	1	0	0	0.0	[FSGS collapsing variant during anabolic steroid abuse: Case Report].	"Anabolic Androgenic Steroids (AAS) is an hormone family whose use has considerably increased among body-builders during the last decades. The AAS abuse, especially associated with other drugs or nutritional supplements and protein loads, may cause a variety of pathologies to several organs with a mechanism related to dosage, timing and substance. The kidney is the main metabolizer of these drugs and it can be acutely or chronically damaged with ESKD. The literature reports some cases of Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in body-builders who abused of AAS. However, the link is not well understood and limited to some case-studies. In this paper, we report the case of a young body-builder who developed a FSGS collapsing variant with ESKD after prolonged abuse of AAS and a strongly hyperproteic diet and other dietary supplements. The patient underwent a genetic test because of the rapid and irreversibile onset of ESKD. The test showed a gene mutation of ACTN4, predisposing and causal of some genetic forms of FSGS. It was a very complex case, caused by several factors. The mutant protein of ACTN4 gene makes most vulnerable the cytoskeleton of the podocytes to external disturbances. That would explain why in those patients where the mutation has occurred, only those patients subject to ""unfavorable environmental conditions"", like the abuse of AAS, can develop a disease."
30549256	Nivolumab	Rheumatic Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association of good oncological response to therapy with the development of rheumatic immune-related adverse events following PD-1 inhibitor therapy.	AIM: To investigate whether any patient or treatment characteristics are associated with the development of rheumatic immune-related adverse events (irAEs) following programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitor therapy for cancer. METHOD: This was a retrospective chart review of all patients who were dispensed nivolumab or pembrolizumab at a single center before 1 January, 2017, with follow-up until 1 July, 2017. Patients with any diagnosis of a non-cutaneous irAE were identified, regardless of severity, and rheumatic irAEs were characterized. RESULTS: Of 244 episodes of therapy, a non-cutaneous irAE occurred in 72 (29.5%). Rheumatic irAEs were diagnosed in 19 episodes of therapy (7.8%), with 12 de novo diagnoses (5.1% of episodes without a pre-existing autoimmune rheumatic disease) and 7 exacerbations of existing disease. Review by a rheumatologist occurred in only 11 of these. Rheumatic irAEs were more common in patients with a good oncological response to therapy (relative risk [RR] 11.16), those being treated for melanoma (RR 2.94) and those who developed another non-cutaneous irAE (RR 2.64). CONCLUSION: Rheumatic irAEs are relatively common with PD-1 inhibitor therapy, and appear to be associated with a good oncological response to therapy. Many rheumatic irAEs were not referred to rheumatological services. Prospective systematic investigation would be of benefit to explore these characteristics.
30522387	Cefuroxime	Central Nervous System Diseases	1	1	0	1	1.0	Cefuroxime-induced anaphylaxis with prominent central nervous system manifestations: A case report.	Cefuroxime is a second-generation cephalosporin antibiotic that causes immediate hypersensitivity reactions, ranging from mild urticaria to severe anaphylactic shock. Anaphylactic reactions typically involve multiple systems, most notably, the skin and the respiratory and cardiovascular systems. Here, we report the unusual case of a patient who presented with oral cefuroxime-induced anaphylaxis with prominent neurologic manifestations. To identify the drug responsible for the anaphylaxis, we performed skin tests. Based on positive skin-prick test results, the diagnosis of cefuroxime-induced anaphylaxis was confirmed. Therefore, we suggest that clinicians should consider the possibility of a drug-induced anaphylactic reaction when neurologic but not cutaneous symptoms are present. The skin-prick test is a safe and useful diagnostic tool to confirm this kind of immediate drug hypersensitivity.
30497387	Clopidogrel	Dyspnea	0	0	0	0		Compared efficacy of clopidogrel and ticagrelor in treating acute coronary syndrome: a meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Ticagrelor has been acknowledged as a new oral antagonist of P2Y12-adenosine diphosphate receptor, as a strategy with more rapid onset as well as more significant platelet inhibition function in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients. The clinical benefit of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel remains controversial. The current meta-analysis was conducted to better evaluate the role of ticagrelor in comparison of clopidogrel in treating ACS patients. METHODS: The publications involving the safety as well as the efficacy of clopidogrel versus ticagrelor were screened and identified updated to June 2018. After rigorous review, eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were extracted and propensity score matching (PSM) analysis was conducted. To analyze the summary odds ratios (ORs) of the endpoints of interest, we applied Meta-analysis Revman 5.3 software. RESULTS: There were a total of 10 studies that met our inclusion criteria, of which the risk of bleeding rate (P = 0.43), MI (P = 0.14), and stroke (P = 0.70) had no association with significant differences between patients receiving ticagrelor or clopidogrel. Nonetheless, higher rate of dyspnea was observed in ticagrelor group (OR = 1.87, 95% CI: 1.70-2.05, P<0.00001 = . CONCLUSIONS: Our present findings suggest similar efficacy and safety profiles for clopidogrel and ticagrelor Ticagrelor should be considered as a valuable option to reduce the risk of bleeding, MI and stroke, whereas potentially increases the incidence of dyspnea. Given the metabolic process, ticagrelor may be a valid and even more potent antiplatelet drug than clopidogrel, as an alternative strategy in treating patients with clopidogrel intolerance or resistance.
30497387	Ticagrelor	Dyspnea	0	0	0	0		Compared efficacy of clopidogrel and ticagrelor in treating acute coronary syndrome: a meta-analysis.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Ticagrelor has been acknowledged as a new oral antagonist of P2Y12-adenosine diphosphate receptor, as a strategy with more rapid onset as well as more significant platelet inhibition function in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients. The clinical benefit of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel remains controversial. The current meta-analysis was conducted to better evaluate the role of ticagrelor in comparison of clopidogrel in treating ACS patients. METHODS: The publications involving the safety as well as the efficacy of clopidogrel versus ticagrelor were screened and identified updated to June 2018. After rigorous review, eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were extracted and propensity score matching (PSM) analysis was conducted. To analyze the summary odds ratios (ORs) of the endpoints of interest, we applied Meta-analysis Revman 5.3 software. RESULTS: There were a total of 10 studies that met our inclusion criteria, of which the risk of bleeding rate (P = 0.43), MI (P = 0.14), and stroke (P = 0.70) had no association with significant differences between patients receiving ticagrelor or clopidogrel. Nonetheless, higher rate of dyspnea was observed in ticagrelor group (OR = 1.87, 95% CI: 1.70-2.05, P<0.00001 = . CONCLUSIONS: Our present findings suggest similar efficacy and safety profiles for clopidogrel and ticagrelor Ticagrelor should be considered as a valuable option to reduce the risk of bleeding, MI and stroke, whereas potentially increases the incidence of dyspnea. Given the metabolic process, ticagrelor may be a valid and even more potent antiplatelet drug than clopidogrel, as an alternative strategy in treating patients with clopidogrel intolerance or resistance.
30422095	Atazanavir Sulfate	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Inflammatory effects of atazanavir/ritonavir versus darunavir/ritonavir in treatment naive, HIV-1-infected patients.	BACKGROUND: Limited studies have compared the impact of different antiretroviral regimens on soluble markers of inflammation with discordant results. METHODS: In this prospective study, treatment naive HIV-1-infected patients were included if they started their current regimen with atazanavir/ritonavir (ATV/r) (N = 73, Group 1) or darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) (N = 85, Group 2) plus tenofovir/emtricitabine. The analysis of IL-6, MCP-1, sCD163, VCAM-1, ox-LDL, and adiponectine was performed on two stored plasma samples, the first prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation and the second one year after initiation. RESULTS: The results of our analysis show a difference in ox-LDL between the two groups with higher mean (SD) values in ATV/r based group 608.5 +/- 137.4 versus 519.1 +/- 119.6 in DRV/r group, after controlling for baseline levels of ox-LDL as well as other potential confounding factors controlled by means of matching design or linear regression modelling. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis provides further data examining the association between the modulation of vascular inflammatory and of activation markers with specific protease inhibitors-based treatments over one year of exposure to these drugs. The data show little evidence for an association, supporting the notion that antiretroviral regimens has generally poor efficiency in downregulating these soluble markers.
30422095	Darunavir	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Inflammatory effects of atazanavir/ritonavir versus darunavir/ritonavir in treatment naive, HIV-1-infected patients.	BACKGROUND: Limited studies have compared the impact of different antiretroviral regimens on soluble markers of inflammation with discordant results. METHODS: In this prospective study, treatment naive HIV-1-infected patients were included if they started their current regimen with atazanavir/ritonavir (ATV/r) (N = 73, Group 1) or darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) (N = 85, Group 2) plus tenofovir/emtricitabine. The analysis of IL-6, MCP-1, sCD163, VCAM-1, ox-LDL, and adiponectine was performed on two stored plasma samples, the first prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation and the second one year after initiation. RESULTS: The results of our analysis show a difference in ox-LDL between the two groups with higher mean (SD) values in ATV/r based group 608.5 +/- 137.4 versus 519.1 +/- 119.6 in DRV/r group, after controlling for baseline levels of ox-LDL as well as other potential confounding factors controlled by means of matching design or linear regression modelling. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis provides further data examining the association between the modulation of vascular inflammatory and of activation markers with specific protease inhibitors-based treatments over one year of exposure to these drugs. The data show little evidence for an association, supporting the notion that antiretroviral regimens has generally poor efficiency in downregulating these soluble markers.
30422095	Ritonavir	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Inflammatory effects of atazanavir/ritonavir versus darunavir/ritonavir in treatment naive, HIV-1-infected patients.	BACKGROUND: Limited studies have compared the impact of different antiretroviral regimens on soluble markers of inflammation with discordant results. METHODS: In this prospective study, treatment naive HIV-1-infected patients were included if they started their current regimen with atazanavir/ritonavir (ATV/r) (N = 73, Group 1) or darunavir/ritonavir (DRV/r) (N = 85, Group 2) plus tenofovir/emtricitabine. The analysis of IL-6, MCP-1, sCD163, VCAM-1, ox-LDL, and adiponectine was performed on two stored plasma samples, the first prior to antiretroviral therapy initiation and the second one year after initiation. RESULTS: The results of our analysis show a difference in ox-LDL between the two groups with higher mean (SD) values in ATV/r based group 608.5 +/- 137.4 versus 519.1 +/- 119.6 in DRV/r group, after controlling for baseline levels of ox-LDL as well as other potential confounding factors controlled by means of matching design or linear regression modelling. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis provides further data examining the association between the modulation of vascular inflammatory and of activation markers with specific protease inhibitors-based treatments over one year of exposure to these drugs. The data show little evidence for an association, supporting the notion that antiretroviral regimens has generally poor efficiency in downregulating these soluble markers.
30406822	Cyclophosphamide	Multiple Myeloma	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Doxorubicin	Ileal Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Doxorubicin	Multiple Myeloma	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Prednisone	Ileal Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Prednisone	Multiple Myeloma	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Rituximab	Ileal Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Rituximab	Multiple Myeloma	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Vincristine	Ileal Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30406822	Vincristine	Multiple Myeloma	1	0	0	0		Locally distributed multicentric plasmacytomas in the ileum secondary to lymphoma chemoimmunotherapy.	
30381018	Aluminum	Sheep Diseases	0	0	0	0		Granulomas Following Subcutaneous Injection With Aluminum Adjuvant-Containing Products in Sheep.	The use of vaccines including aluminum (Al)-based adjuvants is widespread among small ruminants and other animals. They are associated with the appearance of transient injection site nodules corresponding to granulomas. This study aims to characterize the morphology of these granulomas, to understand the role of the Al adjuvant in their genesis, and to establish the presence of the metal in regional lymph nodes. A total of 84 male neutered lambs were selected and divided into 3 treatment groups of 28 animals each: (1) vaccine (containing Al-based adjuvant), (2) adjuvant-only, and (3) control. A total of 19 subcutaneous injections were performed in a time frame of 15 months. Granulomas and regional lymph nodes were evaluated by clinicopathological means. All of the vaccine and 92.3% of the adjuvant-only lambs presented injection-site granulomas; the granulomas were more numerous in the group administered the vaccine. Bacterial culture in granulomas was always negative. Histologically, granulomas in the vaccine group presented a higher degree of severity. Al was specifically identified by lumogallion staining in granulomas and lymph nodes. Al median content was significantly higher ( P < .001) in the lymph nodes of the vaccine group (82.65 mug/g) compared with both adjuvant-only (2.53 mug/g) and control groups (0.96 mug/g). Scanning transmission electron microscopy demonstrated aggregates of Al within macrophages in vaccine and adjuvant-only groups. In these two groups, Al-based adjuvants induce persistent, sterile, subcutaneous granulomas with macrophage-driven translocation of Al to regional lymph nodes. Local translocation of Al may induce further accumulation in distant tissues and be related to the appearance of systemic signs.
30280317	Selenium	Cardiomyopathies	0	1	0	0		Environmental Selenium and Human Health: an Update.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Selenium, a trace element, is ubiquitous in the environment. The main source of human exposure is diet. Despite its nutritional benefits, it is one of the most toxic naturally occurring elements. Selenium deficiency and overexposure have been associated with adverse health effects. Its level of toxicity may depend on its chemical form, as inorganic and organic species have distinct biological properties. RECENT FINDINGS: Nonexperimental and experimental studies have generated insufficient evidence for a role of selenium deficiency in human disease, with the exception of Keshan disease, a cardiomyopathy. Conversely, recent randomized trials have indicated that selenium overexposure is positively associated with type 2 diabetes and high-grade prostate cancer. In addition, a natural experiment has suggested an association between overexposure to inorganic hexavalent selenium and two neurodegenerative diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Risk assessments should be revised to incorporate the results of studies demonstrating toxic effects of selenium. Additional observational studies and secondary analyses of completed randomized trials are needed to address the uncertainties regarding the health risks of selenium exposure.
30280317	Selenium	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	1	0	0		Environmental Selenium and Human Health: an Update.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Selenium, a trace element, is ubiquitous in the environment. The main source of human exposure is diet. Despite its nutritional benefits, it is one of the most toxic naturally occurring elements. Selenium deficiency and overexposure have been associated with adverse health effects. Its level of toxicity may depend on its chemical form, as inorganic and organic species have distinct biological properties. RECENT FINDINGS: Nonexperimental and experimental studies have generated insufficient evidence for a role of selenium deficiency in human disease, with the exception of Keshan disease, a cardiomyopathy. Conversely, recent randomized trials have indicated that selenium overexposure is positively associated with type 2 diabetes and high-grade prostate cancer. In addition, a natural experiment has suggested an association between overexposure to inorganic hexavalent selenium and two neurodegenerative diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Risk assessments should be revised to incorporate the results of studies demonstrating toxic effects of selenium. Additional observational studies and secondary analyses of completed randomized trials are needed to address the uncertainties regarding the health risks of selenium exposure.
30280317	Selenium	Endocrine System Diseases	0	1	0	0		Environmental Selenium and Human Health: an Update.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Selenium, a trace element, is ubiquitous in the environment. The main source of human exposure is diet. Despite its nutritional benefits, it is one of the most toxic naturally occurring elements. Selenium deficiency and overexposure have been associated with adverse health effects. Its level of toxicity may depend on its chemical form, as inorganic and organic species have distinct biological properties. RECENT FINDINGS: Nonexperimental and experimental studies have generated insufficient evidence for a role of selenium deficiency in human disease, with the exception of Keshan disease, a cardiomyopathy. Conversely, recent randomized trials have indicated that selenium overexposure is positively associated with type 2 diabetes and high-grade prostate cancer. In addition, a natural experiment has suggested an association between overexposure to inorganic hexavalent selenium and two neurodegenerative diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Risk assessments should be revised to incorporate the results of studies demonstrating toxic effects of selenium. Additional observational studies and secondary analyses of completed randomized trials are needed to address the uncertainties regarding the health risks of selenium exposure.
30280317	Selenium	Enterovirus Infections	0	1	0	0		Environmental Selenium and Human Health: an Update.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Selenium, a trace element, is ubiquitous in the environment. The main source of human exposure is diet. Despite its nutritional benefits, it is one of the most toxic naturally occurring elements. Selenium deficiency and overexposure have been associated with adverse health effects. Its level of toxicity may depend on its chemical form, as inorganic and organic species have distinct biological properties. RECENT FINDINGS: Nonexperimental and experimental studies have generated insufficient evidence for a role of selenium deficiency in human disease, with the exception of Keshan disease, a cardiomyopathy. Conversely, recent randomized trials have indicated that selenium overexposure is positively associated with type 2 diabetes and high-grade prostate cancer. In addition, a natural experiment has suggested an association between overexposure to inorganic hexavalent selenium and two neurodegenerative diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Risk assessments should be revised to incorporate the results of studies demonstrating toxic effects of selenium. Additional observational studies and secondary analyses of completed randomized trials are needed to address the uncertainties regarding the health risks of selenium exposure.
30280317	Selenium	Nervous System Diseases	0	1	0	0		Environmental Selenium and Human Health: an Update.	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Selenium, a trace element, is ubiquitous in the environment. The main source of human exposure is diet. Despite its nutritional benefits, it is one of the most toxic naturally occurring elements. Selenium deficiency and overexposure have been associated with adverse health effects. Its level of toxicity may depend on its chemical form, as inorganic and organic species have distinct biological properties. RECENT FINDINGS: Nonexperimental and experimental studies have generated insufficient evidence for a role of selenium deficiency in human disease, with the exception of Keshan disease, a cardiomyopathy. Conversely, recent randomized trials have indicated that selenium overexposure is positively associated with type 2 diabetes and high-grade prostate cancer. In addition, a natural experiment has suggested an association between overexposure to inorganic hexavalent selenium and two neurodegenerative diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Risk assessments should be revised to incorporate the results of studies demonstrating toxic effects of selenium. Additional observational studies and secondary analyses of completed randomized trials are needed to address the uncertainties regarding the health risks of selenium exposure.
30240461	Cholestyramine Resin	Colitis	1	0	0	0		An exceptional cause of drug-induced colitis: cholestyramine.	
30216400	Pravastatin	Dementia	0	0	0	0		Clinical Inquiries. Do statins alter the risk or progression of dementia?	
30138609	Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide	Feeding and Eating Disorders	0	0	0	0		Corticotrophin-releasing factor mediates vasoactive intestinal peptide-induced hypophagia and changes in plasma parameters.	Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) are anorexigenic neuropeptides that act in the hypothalamus to regulate food intake. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) microinjection of VIP promotes increased plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone, indicating that VIP activates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the interaction between VIP and CRF, by verifying the effects of ICV administration of VIP on the activity of neurons and CRF mRNA expression in paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (PVN). In addition, it was evaluated the effects of pretreatment with CRF type 1 receptor (CRFR1) antagonist (Antalarmin, ANT) or CRF type 2 receptor (CRFR2) antagonist (Antisauvagine-30, AS30) on VIP-induced changes on food intake and plasma parameters of male rats. Compared to Saline group, VIP increased not only the number of Fos-related antigens (FRA)-immunoreactive neurons in the PVN but also CRF mRNA levels in this nucleus. Both ANT and AS30 treatment attenuated the inhibition of food intake promoted by VIP, ANT showing a more pronounced effect. Both antagonists also attenuated VIP-induced reduction and enhancement of free fatty acids and corticosterone plasma levels, respectively, and only AS30 was able to attenuate the hyperglycemia. These results suggest that CRF is an important mediador of VIP effects on energy balance, and CRFR1 and CRFR2 are involved in these responses.
29726858	Azithromycin	Psoriasis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Photo rounds: Generalized pustular eruption.	The timing of a recent prescription for azithromycin and the morphology of this eruption made us suspect a drug reaction. But which type of reaction were we looking at?
29720098	Tigecycline	Pancreatitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Tigecycline-induced acute pancreatitis in a renal transplant patient: a case report and literature review.	BACKGROUND: The purpose of this case report is to increase the awareness of tigecycline-induced pancreatitis specifically in renal transplant patients predisposed to the condition. CASE PRESENTATION: A 48-year-old woman developed a donor-derived infection after kidney transplantation, resulting in a ruptured graft renal artery, followed by peritoneal drainage, blood and urine culture infections. Due to multiple drug resistance Acinetobacter baumannii cultured from the preservation fluid and blood, she was treated with tigecycline at the 8th post-transplant day combined with other antibiotics. After 15 days of tigecycline treatment, she was observed with recurrent fever and abdominal distension with a rise in pancreatic enzymes. CT scans showed acute pancreatitis with grade D on Balthazar score, no necrosis visible without contrast injection. These facts were sufficient to hint that pancreatitis was slowly becoming prominent. After withdrawal of tigecycline, CT scans showed that exudation around the pancreas were relieved, and blood amylase returned to the normal range in a week. CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians should pay attention to clinical signs and symptoms and the level of serum pancreatic enzymes in order to monitor the development of pancreatitis. If necessary, abdominal CT scans should be performed regularly when given tigecycline.
29656476	Topiramate	Glaucoma, Angle-Closure	1	0	0	0		Topiramate-induced secondary angle closure: salient points in management.	
29616864	Dasatinib	Headache	0	0	0	0		A phase-1 study of dasatinib plus all-trans retinoic acid in acute myeloid leukemia.	Src family kinases (SFKs) are hyperactivated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). SFKs impede the retinoic acid receptor, and SFK inhibitors enhance all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-mediated cellular differentiation in AML cell lines and primary blasts. To translate these findings into the clinic, we undertook a phase-I dose-escalation study of the combination of the SFK inhibitor dasatinib and ATRA in patients with high-risk myeloid neoplasms. Nine subjects were enrolled: six received 70 mg dasatinib plus 45 mg/m(2) ATRA daily, and three received 100 mg dasatinib plus 45 mg/m(2) ATRA daily for 28 days. Headache and QTc prolongations were the only two grade 3 adverse events observed. No significant clinical responses were observed. We conclude that the combination of 70 mg dasatinib and 45 mg/m(2) ATRA daily is safe with acceptable toxicity. Our results provide the safety profile for further investigations into the clinical efficacy of this combination therapy in myeloid malignancies.
29524166	Antilymphocyte Serum	Bradycardia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Antithymocyte Globuline Therapy and Bradycardia in Children.	In antithymocyte globulin (ATG) treated patients occasionally bradycardia has been noticed. Therefore, we retrospectively analyzed the occurrence of bradycardia in ATG-treated children. Using medical records between 2007 and 2012 we identified children undergoing a combined therapy with ATG and glucocorticoids (ATG group, n = 22). The incidence of bradycardia was compared to that registered in children treated with glucocorticoids alone (glucocorticoid alone group, n = 21). Heart rates (HR) were registered before and on days 0-3, 4-7 and 8-14 after the ATG or steroid administration. The rate of bradycardic episodes was higher during ATG therapy than in the steroid alone group, while severe bradycardia occurred only in the ATG group (97 versus 32, p = 0.0037, and 13 versus 0, p = 0.0029, respectively). There was an interaction between the time and treatment group on HR (p = 0.046). Heart rates in ATG and steroid alone groups differed significantly on day 0-3 and day 4-7 (p = 0.046, p = 0.006, respectively). Within the ATG group HR was lower on days 4-7 compared to the days before and the days 8-14 values (p < 0.001, 95%CI: 0.020-0.074). These findings indicate that transient asymptomatic bradycardia is probably more common with ATG therapy than previously reported. HR should be closely monitored during and after ATG therapy.
29516526	Iron	Pleural Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pleural abnormalities and exposure to elongate mineral particles in Minnesota iron ore (taconite) workers.	BACKGROUND: Iron ore (taconite) mining and processing are an important industry in northern Minnesota and western Michigan. Concerns around exposures have centered largely on exposure to non-asbestiform amphibole elongate mineral particles (EMPs) found in the eastern portion of the Minnesota iron range. METHODS: A cross sectional survey was undertaken of current and former taconite workers and spouses along with a detailed exposure assessment. Participants provided an occupational history and had a chest radiograph performed. RESULTS: A total of 1188 workers participated. Potential exposures to non-amphibole EMPs were evident across multiple jobs in all active mines. Pleural abnormalities were found in 16.8% of workers. There was an association of pleural abnormalities with cumulative EMP exposure that was not specific to the eastern portion of the range. CONCLUSION: There was evidence of a mild to moderate increase in pleural abnormalities in this population of miners, associated with geographically non-specific cumulative EMP exposure.
29502740	Cadmium	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	0	0	0	0		Genotoxicity evaluation of multi-component mixtures of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), arsenic, cadmium, and lead using flow cytometry based micronucleus test in HepG2 cells.	Some polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and metals are known human carcinogens and the combined toxicity data of these co-contaminants are important for assessing their health risk. In this study, we have evaluated the combined genotoxicity, AhR activity and cell cycle parameters of four PAHs (benzo[a]pyrene (Ba]P), naphthalene (Nap), phenanthrene (Phe) and pyrene (Pyr)) and three metals (arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), and lead (Pb)) in HepG2 cells using a flow cytometry based micronucleus (MN) test CAFLUX assay and nuclear fluorescence assay, respectively. The mixtures of B[a]P and metals induced a maximum of four fold increase in the MN formation compared to B[a]P alone. The higher combination of PAHs and metals did not significantly increase the MN formation. The mixtures of metals or non-carcinogenic PAHs were found to increase or decrease the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) activation of B[a]P in HepG2 cell based CAFLUX assay. Overall, the results showed that combined genotoxicity of PAHs and metals in HepG2 cells vary depending on the concentrations and number of the chemicals that are present in the mixtures and the effects of higher order combinations appear to be largely unpredictable from binary combinations. In this study, we have demonstrated the use of flow cytometry based MN test to screen the genotoxicity of environmental chemicals and its mixtures.
29502740	Lead	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	0	0	0	0		Genotoxicity evaluation of multi-component mixtures of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), arsenic, cadmium, and lead using flow cytometry based micronucleus test in HepG2 cells.	Some polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and metals are known human carcinogens and the combined toxicity data of these co-contaminants are important for assessing their health risk. In this study, we have evaluated the combined genotoxicity, AhR activity and cell cycle parameters of four PAHs (benzo[a]pyrene (Ba]P), naphthalene (Nap), phenanthrene (Phe) and pyrene (Pyr)) and three metals (arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), and lead (Pb)) in HepG2 cells using a flow cytometry based micronucleus (MN) test CAFLUX assay and nuclear fluorescence assay, respectively. The mixtures of B[a]P and metals induced a maximum of four fold increase in the MN formation compared to B[a]P alone. The higher combination of PAHs and metals did not significantly increase the MN formation. The mixtures of metals or non-carcinogenic PAHs were found to increase or decrease the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) activation of B[a]P in HepG2 cell based CAFLUX assay. Overall, the results showed that combined genotoxicity of PAHs and metals in HepG2 cells vary depending on the concentrations and number of the chemicals that are present in the mixtures and the effects of higher order combinations appear to be largely unpredictable from binary combinations. In this study, we have demonstrated the use of flow cytometry based MN test to screen the genotoxicity of environmental chemicals and its mixtures.
29502734	Chromium	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	1	1	0	0	0.0	Corrosion potential in artificial saliva and possible genotoxic and cytotoxic damage in buccal epithelial cells of patients who underwent Ni-Cr based porcelain-fused-to-metal fixed dental prostheses.	Nickel-chromium(Ni-Cr) based alloys account for the majority of the porcelain-fused-to-metal fixed dental prostheses(PFM-FDPs) on account of their superior properties despite both nickel and chromium being known as human carcinogens. Understanding the genotoxicity and the cytotoxicity alongside the characteristics of corrosion behavior of the alloy is vital for understanding their biocompatibility. This study has evaluated whether the Ni-Cr based alloys corroded in artificial saliva by analyzing alloy decomposition at different pH levels and immersion durations(7, 14, 21, and 28 days) using inductively coupled plasma-optic emission spectrophotometry(ICP-OES). The principal aim of the study was to determine the possible genotoxicity and cytotoxicity using micronucleus(MN) and other nuclear anomaly frequencies [nuclear bud(NBUD), binucleated(BNC), condensed chromatin(CC), karyorrhectic(KhC), pyknotic(PC) and karyolytic(KC) cells] and various cytome parameters [basal cells(BC), differentiated cells(DF)] with the buccal epithelial cell(BEC) micronucleus cytome assay(BMCyt). This test was administered at 1 pre- and 3 post-treatment time points to 40 patients who underwent installation of PFM-FDPs made of Ni-Cr based alloy. Furthermore, at the final post-treatment time point, saliva cotinine levels were measured with salivary cotinine quantitative enzyme immunoassay(EIA) kit and information obtained by questionnaire prior to the first pre-treatment time point was confirmed. The highest greatest release of Ni and Cr ions were seen at pH 2.3. MN and micronucleated cell frequencies, and BNC cell frequencies were significantly elevated at post-treatment time points(p < 0.03). BC, CC, KhC, PC and KC cell frequencies however were not significantly different between pre-and post-treatment time points(p > 0.05). MN frequency was significantly lower in non-smokers than in current and former smokers(p < 0.001) at the pre-treatment time point. There was no significant correlation between the unit number of PFM-FDPs and MN frequencies. Our results revealed that Ni-Cr based alloys are prone to corrosion and that PFM-FDPs fabricated with Ni-Cr based alloys may induce genotoxic effects rather than cytotoxic effect.
29502734	Nickel	Micronuclei, Chromosome-Defective	1	1	0	0	0.0	Corrosion potential in artificial saliva and possible genotoxic and cytotoxic damage in buccal epithelial cells of patients who underwent Ni-Cr based porcelain-fused-to-metal fixed dental prostheses.	Nickel-chromium(Ni-Cr) based alloys account for the majority of the porcelain-fused-to-metal fixed dental prostheses(PFM-FDPs) on account of their superior properties despite both nickel and chromium being known as human carcinogens. Understanding the genotoxicity and the cytotoxicity alongside the characteristics of corrosion behavior of the alloy is vital for understanding their biocompatibility. This study has evaluated whether the Ni-Cr based alloys corroded in artificial saliva by analyzing alloy decomposition at different pH levels and immersion durations(7, 14, 21, and 28 days) using inductively coupled plasma-optic emission spectrophotometry(ICP-OES). The principal aim of the study was to determine the possible genotoxicity and cytotoxicity using micronucleus(MN) and other nuclear anomaly frequencies [nuclear bud(NBUD), binucleated(BNC), condensed chromatin(CC), karyorrhectic(KhC), pyknotic(PC) and karyolytic(KC) cells] and various cytome parameters [basal cells(BC), differentiated cells(DF)] with the buccal epithelial cell(BEC) micronucleus cytome assay(BMCyt). This test was administered at 1 pre- and 3 post-treatment time points to 40 patients who underwent installation of PFM-FDPs made of Ni-Cr based alloy. Furthermore, at the final post-treatment time point, saliva cotinine levels were measured with salivary cotinine quantitative enzyme immunoassay(EIA) kit and information obtained by questionnaire prior to the first pre-treatment time point was confirmed. The highest greatest release of Ni and Cr ions were seen at pH 2.3. MN and micronucleated cell frequencies, and BNC cell frequencies were significantly elevated at post-treatment time points(p < 0.03). BC, CC, KhC, PC and KC cell frequencies however were not significantly different between pre-and post-treatment time points(p > 0.05). MN frequency was significantly lower in non-smokers than in current and former smokers(p < 0.001) at the pre-treatment time point. There was no significant correlation between the unit number of PFM-FDPs and MN frequencies. Our results revealed that Ni-Cr based alloys are prone to corrosion and that PFM-FDPs fabricated with Ni-Cr based alloys may induce genotoxic effects rather than cytotoxic effect.
29164977	Bendamustine Hydrochloride	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		A retrospective, matched paired analysis comparing bendamustine containing BeEAM versus BEAM conditioning regimen: results from a single center experience.	The combination of carmustine, etoposide, aracytin, and melphalan(BEAM) conditioning regimen in autologous stem-cell transplantation (ASCT) is widely used in patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and Hodgkin lymphoma. It is also an option in patients with very-high risk aggressive NHL in first complete remission (CR). Recently, a phase Ib-II feasibility study using bendamustine replacing carmustine (BCNU) was reported. We report herein a safety and efficacy analysis of bendamustine-EAM (BeEAM) with a control BEAM counterpart paired cohort (1/2). One hundred and two patients were analyzed. Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were not reached and seemed to be comparable between both groups. However, grade III or greater diarrhea was significantly higher in BeEAM patients (44 vs. 15%, p = .002). The median number of days with fever >38  degrees C was significantly higher in BeEAM group (5.5 vs. 2, p < .001). This case-control study suggests that BeEAM followed by ASCT using bendamustine at 100 mg/m(2)/d is effective but has a different toxicity profile than the BEAM regimen.
30772834	Phenazopyridine	Hypoxia	1	0	0	0		Methemoglobinaemia with chronic phenazopyridine ingestion.	
30489484	Nivolumab	Lupus Erythematosus, Cutaneous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus induced by nivolumab: two case reports and a literature review.	Nivolumab is widely used to treat several late-stage malignancies such as melanoma and non-small-cell lung cancer by inhibiting the interaction between the programmed cell death protein-1 and its ligand. By stimulating an antitumor immune response, it also leads to immune adverse events. Here. we report two cases of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE) induced by nivolumab. Case 1: a 72-year-old woman with a stage IV melanoma. Two months after nivolumab discontinuation because of autoimmune hepatitis, the patient was in complete remission and pruritic nummular erythematous plaques appeared on the back and arms. Case 2: a 43-year-old man put under nivolumab for a metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. After two cycles, an annular erythematous eruption appeared on the hands, arms, and chest. The hypothesis of SCLE was confirmed by biopsies showing lymphoid perivascular inflammatory infiltrates, with scarce C3 deposits along the basal layer of the epidermis in patient 2. Both patients tested positive for antinuclear antibodies and anti-SSA antibodies. Lesions were regressive under topical corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine for the first patient and oral prednisone for the second patient. No systemic involvement was observed. The occurrence of SCLE 2 months after nivolumab discontinuation is evidence that the drug effect is prolonged because of the maintenance of programmed cell death protein-1 reception saturation for months. A causal relationship between SCLE and nivolumab is suggested by (i) the occurrence of SCLE after at least two cycles, (ii) the regression of lesions following treatment with corticosteroids and hydroxychloroquine, and (iii) the fact that it appeared after remission in our first patient.
31177518	Oxygen	Cognitive Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		Early detection of diving-related cognitive impairment of different nitrogen-oxygen gas mixtures using critical flicker fusion frequency.	INTRODUCTION: Cognitive impairment related to inert gas narcosis (IGN) is a threat to diving safety and operations at depth that might be reduced by using enriched air nitrox (EANx) mixtures. Using critical flicker fusion frequency (CFFF), a possible early detection of cognitive abilities/cerebral arousal impairment when breathing different oxygen (O2) fractions was investigated. METHODS: Eight male volunteers performed, in random order, two dry chamber dives breathing either air or EANx40 (40% O(2)-60% nitrogen) for 20 minutes (min) at 0.4 MPa. Cognition and arousal were assessed before the dive; upon arrival at 0.4 MPa; after 15 min exposure at 0.4 MPa; on surfacing and 30 min post-dive using behavioural computer-based testing psychology experiment building language (PEBL) and by CFFF while continuously recording brain oxygenation with near-infrared spectroscopy. RESULTS: In both breathing conditions, CFFF and PEBL demonstrated a significant inverse correlation (Pearson r of -0.90, P < 0.0001), improved cognitive abilities/cerebral arousal occurred upon arrival at 0.4 MPa followed by a progressive deterioration. Initial brain activation was associated with a significant increase in oxyhaemoglobin (HbO2) and a simultaneous decrease of deoxyhaemoglobin (HHb). The magnitude of the changes was significantly greater under EANx (P = 0.038). CONCLUSIONS: Since changes were not related to haemodynamic variables, HbO(2) and HHb values indicate a significant, O(2)-dependent activation in the prefrontal cortex. Owing to the correlation with some tests from the PEBL, CFFF could be a convenient measure of cognitive performance/ability in extreme environments, likely under the direct influence of oxygen partial pressure, a potent modulator of IGN symptoms.
31177141	Nivolumab	Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic	1	1	0	1	0.0	Bullous Lupus Under Nivolumab Treatment for Lung Cancer: A Case Report With Systematic Literature Review.	BACKGROUND: Various immune-related adverse events (irAEs) have been reported to be associated with the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors. We report a case of a patient with lung cancer treated with nivolumab who developed a bullous eruption and give a systematic review of the literature on irAEs in patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors for lung cancer. CASE REPORT: A patient with lung adenocarcinoma developed a non-specific skin lesion at the time of his cancer diagnosis followed by flare episodes until the eighth cycle of nivolumab, when he developed a bullous lupus. As the first eruption had started a few months after his cancer diagnosis and was exacerbated during immunotherapy, a paraneoplastic origin is discussed. Since the patient also presented with flares under nivolumab, we reviewed reported irAEs. No bullous lupus was found but to date, 33 cases of paraneoplastic lupus and two of lupus erythematosus have been reported. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first description of a bullous lupus exacerbated by nivolumab.
30887418	Canagliflozin	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Time-Matched Evaluation of Cardiovascular Risks Associated with Drugs for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The results of large placebo-controlled clinical trials to evaluate cardiovascular risks associated with drugs for type 2 diabetes mellitus indicated different cardiovascular effects among these drugs, but the detailed design of each trial was not completely the same. The aim of this study was to perform time-matched evaluation of cardiovascular risks of drugs for type 2 diabetes. METHODS: We used the difference in restricted mean survival time (RMST) as a measure of cardiovascular risks. Regarding drugs for type 2 diabetes used currently, this study included all 10 clinical trials in patients with type 2 diabetes at high cardiovascular risk the results of which have been published as of 30 November 2018. Since the shortest study follow-up time was about 672 days in SUSTAIN-6, we chose 672 days as a common time point to estimate the RMSTs regarding each safety event. RESULTS: The differences of RMSTs (drugs for type 2 diabetes minus placebo: point estimate and 95% confidence interval) for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were 8 days (1, 15) for semaglutide, 5 days (1, 9) for liraglutide, and 7 days (2, 13) for empagliflozin. Those for death from cardiovascular causes were 5 days (2, 8) for empagliflozin and 2 days (1, 4) for canagliflozin. Those for death from any cause were 4 days (1, 8) for empagliflozin. CONCLUSIONS: Through the evaluation up to 672 days, semaglutide, liraglutide, and empagliflozin decreased the risk of MACE. Concerning the risk of each cardiovascular event, risk reduction was seen with empagliflozin and canagliflozin.
30887418	Liraglutide	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Time-Matched Evaluation of Cardiovascular Risks Associated with Drugs for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The results of large placebo-controlled clinical trials to evaluate cardiovascular risks associated with drugs for type 2 diabetes mellitus indicated different cardiovascular effects among these drugs, but the detailed design of each trial was not completely the same. The aim of this study was to perform time-matched evaluation of cardiovascular risks of drugs for type 2 diabetes. METHODS: We used the difference in restricted mean survival time (RMST) as a measure of cardiovascular risks. Regarding drugs for type 2 diabetes used currently, this study included all 10 clinical trials in patients with type 2 diabetes at high cardiovascular risk the results of which have been published as of 30 November 2018. Since the shortest study follow-up time was about 672 days in SUSTAIN-6, we chose 672 days as a common time point to estimate the RMSTs regarding each safety event. RESULTS: The differences of RMSTs (drugs for type 2 diabetes minus placebo: point estimate and 95% confidence interval) for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) were 8 days (1, 15) for semaglutide, 5 days (1, 9) for liraglutide, and 7 days (2, 13) for empagliflozin. Those for death from cardiovascular causes were 5 days (2, 8) for empagliflozin and 2 days (1, 4) for canagliflozin. Those for death from any cause were 4 days (1, 8) for empagliflozin. CONCLUSIONS: Through the evaluation up to 672 days, semaglutide, liraglutide, and empagliflozin decreased the risk of MACE. Concerning the risk of each cardiovascular event, risk reduction was seen with empagliflozin and canagliflozin.
30803545	Bleomycin	Root Resorption	1	1	1	1	1.0	Multiple Cervical Root Resorption in a Young Adult Female Previously Treated with Chemotherapy: A Case Report.	Multiple idiopathic cervical root resorption is an aggressive form of external root resorption that occurs at the cementoenamel junction and can affect multiple teeth (a minimum of 3) throughout the entire dentition. Most of the individuals affected are healthy with noncontributory medical histories. The resorption is usually detected as an incidental finding on radiographs or during dental examination. This case report describes an adult female with multiple cervical root resorptions who had been treated with chemotherapy for ovarian cancer at 16 years old. Nine years later, a total of 12 teeth were diagnosed with cervical root resorption. All of the known causative factors for external cervical resorption were discarded. To our knowledge, this is the first case reported of multiple cervical root resorption related to chemotherapy.
30783329	Capecitabine	Dermatomyositis	1	1	0	1	1.0	A case of capecitabine-induced dermatomyositis.	Dermatomyositis (DM) is an idiopathic, inflammatory connective tissue disorder characterized by symmetrical proximal myopathy and characteristic skin involvement. The pathogenesis of DM is widely debated; however, it is postulated to be an end result of immune-mediated cascade, triggered by multiple environmental factors in a genetically predisposed individual. In addition to underlying malignancies, many drugs have been reported to be associated with DM. Capecitabine is a chemotherapeutic agent, approved by the United States-Food and Drug Administration for the management of colonic, metastatic colonic, and metastatic breast carcinoma. It is converted into 5-fluorouracil after oral intake. Common dose-limiting toxicities associated with the usage of the capecitabine include increased bilirubin levels, diarrhea, and hand-foot syndrome. DM-induced by capecitabine has rarely been reported. Herein, we describe a patient of metastatic carcinoma breast, who developed DM after capecitabine intake. The patient had accidental re-challenge with capecitabine resulting in the reappearance of the cutaneous and musculoskeletal system, thereby confirming our diagnosis of drug-induced DM in the setting of underlying malignancy.
30782579	Lacosamide	Status Epilepticus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Absence status induced by lacosamide adjunctive therapy.	Since lacosamide was approved as an adjuvant agent for the treatment of medically refractory focal epilepsy over ten years ago, it is becoming more widely used for the treatment of idiopathic (genetic) generalized epilepsies. Several studies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS), but efficacy is less well-characterized for myoclonic and absence seizures. A 29-year-old man with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and medically refractory GTCS on a combination of levetiracetam and topiramate was started on lacosamide adjunctive therapy with the plan to replace topiramate. While his GTCS became controlled, he was witnessed to have confusional episodes, with waxing and waning responsiveness, lasting a few days, several times a month. After eight months of adjunctive lacosamide therapy, he was admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit, where paroxysms of generalized spike-and-wave complexes, lasting for 30-90 minutes, were recorded, interrupted only by sleep. During these periods, he demonstrated psychomotor slowing and disorientation on examination. The absence status was successfully broken by lorazepam, and lacosamide was discontinued. The patient had no further confusional episodes at the most recent follow-up visit, four months after discharge.
30767898	Oxcarbazepine	Seizures	1	1	0	0	0.0	Rasmussen syndrome: absence seizures may be induced by oxcarbazepine.	A female patient with electroclinical and neuroradiological features compatible with Rasmussen syndrome developed a particular clinical and EEG pattern. As the seizures were refractory to valproate at 750 mg/kg/day, oxcarbazepine (OXC) at 30 mg/kg/day was added. Seizures became more frequent and on neurological examination, no hemiparesis was detected. The interictal EEG showed focal spikes and diffuse paroxysms in the right fronto-temporal regions. Brain MRI revealed right hemiatrophy, mainly at the Sylvian fissure. After initiating OXC daily, brief absence seizures, lasting less than 20 seconds and associated with bilateral and synchronous 2.5-3-Hz spike-and-waves compatible with typical absences, were observed. OXC was discontinued and the typical absences disappeared. Treatment with intravenous gammaglobulin was started. At the last control visit, at nine years of age, no absence seizures were observed either by the parents or on the EEG recording. Our patient who met the diagnostic criteria for Rasmussen syndrome presented with absence seizures that may have been induced by OXC. The absence seizures disappeared after OXC was discontinued.
30672612	Adalimumab	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Results of a retrospective study on the efficacy and safety of adalimumab 80 mg administrated every other week in patients with psoriasis at a single Japanese institution.	Adalimumab (ADA) is one of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha monoclonal antibodies used for the treatment of psoriasis. In Japan, standard dosing of ADA for adults is an initial s.c. injection of 80 mg, followed by 40 mg every other week. Some patients who initially do not respond to treatment are allowed an increased dose of 80 mg every other week. However, studies on the efficacy and safety of ADA dose escalation to 80 mg every other week are few. In this study, we retrospectively studied 92 patients with psoriasis who received ADA therapy in our hospital. In 45 out of 92 patients, the dose of ADA 80 mg was administrated every other week, and the efficacy was observed within 12 weeks. The most common adverse drug reaction was upper respiratory infection, followed by diarrhea. In three patients, malignancies occurred during the observation period. No deaths or other severe complications were observed. In conclusion, this study showed the efficacy and safety of ADA dose escalation to 80 mg every other week in patients with psoriasis.
30365211	Triamcinolone	Nocardia Infections	1	0	0	0		Two cases of primary cutaneous nocardiosis caused by intralesional injection.	Nocardiosis is a rare localized or systemic suppurative disease caused by the actinomycete Nocardia species. The respiratory tract is the most common site of infection, but primary cutaneous nocardiosis can also be induced by direct inoculation. Nocardiosis is usually reported in immunocompromised patients, such as those with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, autoimmune diseases, cancer, or in those who have had organ transplantation or corticosteroid administration. However, it can also affect individuals with no serious underlying condition. We reported two cases of primary cutaneous nocardiosis in immunocompetent patients after intralesional injection of steroid.
30285315	Trastuzumab	Hemostatic Disorders	1	0	1	1		First case of trastuzumab emtansine-associated hemorrhagic telangiectasias treated with propranolol.	
30285315	Trastuzumab	Telangiectasis	1	0	1	1		First case of trastuzumab emtansine-associated hemorrhagic telangiectasias treated with propranolol.	
30178279	Hyaluronic Acid	Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung	1	0	0	0		A facile approach for fabricating CD44-targeted delivery of hyaluronic acid-functionalized PCL nanoparticles in urethane-induced lung cancer: Bcl-2, MMP-9, caspase-9, and BAX as potential markers.	Lung carcinoma ranks highest in cancer-related death (about 20% of total cancer deaths) due to poor prognosis and lack of efficient management therapy. Owing to the lack of effective therapeutic approaches, survival rate of less than 5 years persists over the years among non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Capsaicin (CAP) is well reported for its antiproliferative and antioxidant properties in various literature but lacks an appropriate delivery carrier. The present study was aimed to develop CAP-loaded hyaluronic acid (HA) nanoparticles (NPs) utilizing layer by layer technique to achieve enhanced and precise delivery as well as target specificity. The NPs were evaluated for in vitro release, particle size, zeta potential, and cytotoxicity on A549 cells. The optimized NPs exhibited a particle size of 194 +/- 2.90 nm, - 27.87 +/- 3.21 mV zeta potential, and 80.70 +/- 4.29% release, respectively, over a period of 48 h. Flow cytometric analysis revealed superior performance of HA-PCL-CAP in terms of suppressed cell viability in A549 cell lines when compared with CAP and PCL-CAP. Further, HA-anchored NPs were evaluated in vivo for their therapeutic efficacy in urethane-induced lung carcinoma in rat model. The superlative therapeutic potential of HA-PCL-CAP was advocated from the results of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial membrane-mediated apoptosis. HA-PCL-CAP-administered groups presented greater therapeutic efficacy as revealed through reduced tumor volume and improved animal survival rate. A greater drug accumulation in tumor tissue as revealed from biodistribution studies evidences targeting potential of HA-PCL-CAP in urethane-induced lung carcinoma. Graphical abstract ᅟ.
30178279	Hyaluronic Acid	Lung Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		A facile approach for fabricating CD44-targeted delivery of hyaluronic acid-functionalized PCL nanoparticles in urethane-induced lung cancer: Bcl-2, MMP-9, caspase-9, and BAX as potential markers.	Lung carcinoma ranks highest in cancer-related death (about 20% of total cancer deaths) due to poor prognosis and lack of efficient management therapy. Owing to the lack of effective therapeutic approaches, survival rate of less than 5 years persists over the years among non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Capsaicin (CAP) is well reported for its antiproliferative and antioxidant properties in various literature but lacks an appropriate delivery carrier. The present study was aimed to develop CAP-loaded hyaluronic acid (HA) nanoparticles (NPs) utilizing layer by layer technique to achieve enhanced and precise delivery as well as target specificity. The NPs were evaluated for in vitro release, particle size, zeta potential, and cytotoxicity on A549 cells. The optimized NPs exhibited a particle size of 194 +/- 2.90 nm, - 27.87 +/- 3.21 mV zeta potential, and 80.70 +/- 4.29% release, respectively, over a period of 48 h. Flow cytometric analysis revealed superior performance of HA-PCL-CAP in terms of suppressed cell viability in A549 cell lines when compared with CAP and PCL-CAP. Further, HA-anchored NPs were evaluated in vivo for their therapeutic efficacy in urethane-induced lung carcinoma in rat model. The superlative therapeutic potential of HA-PCL-CAP was advocated from the results of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial membrane-mediated apoptosis. HA-PCL-CAP-administered groups presented greater therapeutic efficacy as revealed through reduced tumor volume and improved animal survival rate. A greater drug accumulation in tumor tissue as revealed from biodistribution studies evidences targeting potential of HA-PCL-CAP in urethane-induced lung carcinoma. Graphical abstract ᅟ.
28926514	Estradiol	Candidiasis, Vulvovaginal	0	0	0	0		A randomized, multicenter, double-blind study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of estradiol vaginal cream 0.003% in postmenopausal women with dyspareunia as the most bothersome symptom.	OBJECTIVE: Vulvovaginal atrophy (VVA) is characterized by vaginal changes, dyspareunia, and itching/irritation. Efficacy and safety of a lower-dose estradiol vaginal cream (0.003%) were evaluated in postmenopausal women with VVA-related dyspareunia. METHODS: This was a phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Sexually active postmenopausal women with moderate-severe dyspareunia as the most bothersome symptom, </=5% vaginal superficial cells, and vaginal pH >5.0 were randomized (1:1) to 0.003% estradiol vaginal cream (15 mug estradiol; 0.5 g cream) or placebo (0.5 g cream) applied daily for 2 weeks followed by three applications/week for 10 weeks. Coprimary outcomes were changes in dyspareunia severity, vaginal cytology, and vaginal pH from baseline to final assessment. Additional efficacy outcomes and safety were assessed. RESULTS: A total of 550 participants (average age, 58 y) were randomized. Compared with placebo, estradiol reduced dyspareunia severity (mean change from baseline +/- SD: -1.5 +/- 1.0 estradiol vs -1.2 +/- 0.9 placebo), decreased vaginal pH (-1.36 +/- 0.89 vs -0.53 +/- 0.92), and improved vaginal cytology (percentage superficial and parabasal cells 10.1 +/- 16.7 vs 1.4 +/- 6.1 and -48.5 +/- 45.1 vs -14.6 +/- 39.6; P < 0.001, all) at the final assessment. In addition, estradiol decreased dyspareunia severity at weeks 8 and 12, vaginal/vulvar irritation/itching at weeks 4 and 12, and dryness at week 12 versus placebo (P < 0.01, all). VVA severity, pH, and cytology improved at week 12 with estradiol versus placebo (P < 0.001, all). Vulvovaginal mycotic infections were more frequent with estradiol. One serious event leading to discontinuation occurred with estradiol. No deaths occurred. CONCLUSIONS: Lower-dose estradiol vaginal cream (0.003%) dosed three applications/week is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for VVA-related dyspareunia.
28782528	Clonazepam	Pneumonia	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Use of Benzodiazepine Receptor Agonists and the Risk of Hospitalization for Pneumonia: A Nationwide Population-Based Nested Case-Control Study.	BACKGROUND: The relationship between the use of benzodiazepine-receptor agonists (BZRAs) and the risk of hospitalization for pneumonia remains inconclusive. This study aimed to explore the association between BZRA use and hospitalization for pneumonia in a general population. METHODS: This population-based nested case-control study used Taiwan's National Health Insurance Research Database between 2002 and 2012. We included only new users who did not have any BZRA prescriptions on record in the preceding 2 years and identified 12,002 subjects who were hospitalized for pneumonia (International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision codes 480-486, and 507) and 12,002 disease risk score-matched control subjects. A logistic regression model was used to determine the association of BZRA use and hospitalization for pneumonia. The exposure date, dose-response relationship, and class of BZRAs were comprehensively assessed. RESULTS: Current BZRA exposure was associated with hospitalization for pneumonia (adjusted OR [aOR],1.86; 95% CI, 1.75-1.97). Benzodiazepine hypnotic agents (aOR, 2.42; 95% CI, 2.16-2.71) had a higher risk of pneumonia than did benzodiazepine anxiolytic agents (aOR, 1.53; 95% CI, 1.44-1.63) or nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic agents (aOR, 1.60; 95% CI, 1.46-1.76). The pneumonia risk was increased with ultrashort-acting and short- to intermediate-acting agents, a higher defined daily dose, and the number of BZRAs used. Among individual BZRAs examined, midazolam had a higher risk (aOR, 5.77; 95% CI, 4.31-7.73) of hospitalization for pneumonia than did the others. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that there is a dose-response relationship between current BZRA use and the risk of hospitalization for pneumonia. In addition, benzodiazepine hypnotic agents, especially midazolam, present a greater risk of hospitalization for pneumonia. These findings reinforce the importance of a careful analysis of the benefits vs the risks of BZRA use.
30945510	Alginates	Gastroesophageal Reflux	0	0	0	0		Magnesium alginate in children with uncontrolled asthma.	Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may be frequently associated with asthma in children and may affect asthma control. Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) are commonly prescribed in asthmatic children, despite uncertain efficacy on respiratory symptoms and risk of relevant adverse effects.
30945510	Magnesium	Gastroesophageal Reflux	0	0	0	0		Magnesium alginate in children with uncontrolled asthma.	Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may be frequently associated with asthma in children and may affect asthma control. Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) are commonly prescribed in asthmatic children, despite uncertain efficacy on respiratory symptoms and risk of relevant adverse effects.
30645928	Clindamycin	Deglutition Disorders	1	0	0	0		A case of Clindamycin-induced aphagia.	
30641352	Levetiracetam	Cognition Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30641352	Levetiracetam	Mental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30641352	Levetiracetam	Sleep Wake Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30641352	Oxcarbazepine	Cognition Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30641352	Oxcarbazepine	Mental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30641352	Oxcarbazepine	Sleep Wake Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cognitive, behavioural and sleep-related adverse effects on introduction of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine for epilepsy.	OBJECTIVE: There is limited literature on cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine among adult epilepsy patients, except for what is available from the initial efficacy trials. This study was initiated with the aim to evaluate the incidence and prevalence of various cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects of levetiracetam versus oxcarbazepine among people with epilepsy. METHODS: The study was conducted in two parts: part A was a cross-sectional study, and part B was a longitudinal study. Trail making test A & B, digit symbol substitution test, Stroop colour and word test, controlled oral word association test and PGI memory scale, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, sleep log and ESS-I were used for assessment of cognitive, behaviour and sleep-related adverse effects. RESULTS: In the cross-sectional as well as prospective study, no significant difference was observed in the cognitive performance of patients in levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine group in any of the cognitive assessment. Among 120 patients enrolled in the cross-sectional study, significantly higher number of patients in the levetiracetam group compared to the oxcarbazepine group,had agitation/aggression (20% vs10%, p =  0.047) and irritability (26.7% vs 3.3%, p = 0.007).Among 132 patients enrolled in the prospective study, significantly higher increase in the domain score of agitation/aggression (14.5% vs 1.6%, p = 0.028) and irritability (17.7% vs 1.6%, p =  0.018) was observed in the levetiracetam group compared to oxcarbazepine group. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the oxcarbazepine group had hypersomnolence (11.3% vs 1.6%, p =  0.026), as compared to the levetiracetam group. SIGNIFICANCE: On cross-sectional as well as on longitudinal assessment, nearly one-fifth of patients on levetiracetam have behaviour related adverse effects, with dose modification required for half among these. Nearly 11% of patients on oxcarbazepine reported sleep-related adverse effects (higher total sleep duration per 24 h).
30605942	Vemurafenib	Uveitis	1	1	0	0	1.0	A Rare Cause of Uveitis: Vemurafenib.	A 25-year-old female presented with a decrease of vision and redness in both eyes. She had a history of nodular melanoma in her right shoulder, which was excised surgically and she was under oral vemurafenib treatment. She was diagnosed with moderately severe bilateral panuveitis and hospitalized for systemic investigation and workup. The laboratory test results were unremarkable and systemic workup failed to reveal an etiology. The condition was considered vemurafenib-induced uveitis, as the drug is known to be associated with uveitis. After reevaluation with the oncology department, vemurafenib was stopped and topical and systemic corticosteroid therapy was started. The uveitis resolved and her vision returned to normal. No sign of recurrence was detected at 8-month follow-up.
30264888	Vitamin K 1	Facial Dermatoses	1	0	0	0		Crossed allergic contact dermatitis caused by oxidized vitamin K(1) in a patient previously sensitized to non-oxidized vitamin K(1).	
29326335	Baclofen	Sleep Apnea Syndromes	1	0	0	0		Baclofen and sleep apnoea syndrome: analysis of VigiBase, the WHO pharmacovigilance database.	
30378165	Pioglitazone	Urinary Bladder Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		A systematic review of observational studies of the association between pioglitazone use and bladder cancer.	AIM: To conduct a systematic review of all observational studies on the effect of pioglitazone on the risk of bladder cancer. METHODS: The MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were queried for papers published between 1 January 2000 and 30 October 2017. We took into consideration observational studies (both retrospective and prospective) that included participants with Type 2 diabetes prescribed anti-hyperglycaemic drugs. RESULTS: While some studies reported an association, others did not, and meta-analyses of these studies showed a significantly increased risk; however, while meta-analysis is a powerful and practical statistical tool, its results should be considered with caution when applied to widely heterogeneous studies. We describe how many of these studies are affected by different types of bias, most notably time-related biases, which should preclude a pooled analysis that would result in biased estimation of the risk. CONCLUSIONS: Given existing data, it is not appropriate to pool the outcomes of highly heterogeneous studies and further rigorously conducted observational research is needed to clarify the role of pioglitazone use on the incidence of bladder cancer.
30236980	Dronedarone	Tachycardia, Ventricular	1	0	0	0		Ventricular arrhythmia and death among atrial fibrillation patients using anti-arrhythmic drugs.	AIM: The aim of the study was to assess and compare the safety of antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) in an unselected real-world population of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). METHODS AND RESULTS: This is a study of all patients with diagnosed AF in the Swedish Patient register who filled a prescription for sotalol, amiodarone, dronedarone, flecainide or disopyramide during 2010 to 2015. The main end point consisted of arrhythmic death, successful resuscitation, new diagnosis of sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation or implantation of ICD. All-cause mortality was a secondary end point. Minimum follow up was 1 year. Falsification end points were used to assess hidden confounding. 44,995 AF patients on AAD and 267,518 AF patients without AAD were studied during a total time at risk of over 1.1 million years. Compared to sotalol, the risk for the main end point was decreased with dronedarone (hazard ratio [HR] 0.58, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.37-0.90), similar with flecainide (HR 0.95, 0.69-1.32) and disopyramide (HR 1.30, CI 0.83-2.05). All-cause mortality was lower with dronedarone (HR 0.44, CI 0.34-0.57) and flecainide (HR 0.55, CI 0.44-0.68) than with sotalol. Hidden confounding prevented reliable assessment of amiodarone. CONCLUSIONS: Dronedarone was the only anti-arrhythmic drug with significantly lower risk for arrhythmic death, sustained ventricular arrhythmia or ICD implantation than sotalol among patients with atrial fibrillation. Both dronedarone and flecainide were associated with lower all-cause mortality than sotalol.
29660754	Bupropion	Lung Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Antidepressant Prescription and Risk of Lung Cancer: A Nationwide Case-Control Study.	INTRODUCTION: In recent decades, concern about safety of antidepressants has been raised but the risk between antidepressants and lung cancer has not yet been established. METHODS: A case-control study was conducted by using a nationwide database in Taiwan. The case groups were new onset lung cancer diagnosis during 1999-2008 and age- and gender-matched controls were selected among those without any cancer. The cumulative exposure dose before the lung cancer diagnosis was added and risks were calculated according to the levels of defined daily dose and classes of antidepressants. RESULTS: A total of 39,001 individuals with lung cancer and 189,906 individuals without lung cancer between 1999 and 2008 were included in the analysis. Antidepressants, of any class, were not associated with elevated risks for lung cancer with the exception of bupropion at high exposure levels (odds ratio=4.81, 95% confidence interval=1.39-16.71). DISCUSSION: Antidepressant prescription was not associated with elevation of lung cancer incidence using a nationally representative sample. The elevated risk for lung cancer with bupropion at high doses may be a bias by indication and warrant longitudinal investigation.
30945623	Palonosetron	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Short-course olanzapine to prevent delayed emesis following carboplatin/paclitaxel for gynecologic cancer: a randomised study.	PURPOSE: To explore efficacy of short-course olanzapine with or without low-dose dexamethasone for prevention of delayed emesis in gynecologic cancer patients receiving carboplatin/paclitaxel. METHODS: This was a prospective study in 81 chemo-naive patients receiving 0.25 mg intravenous palonosetron, 16 mg dexamethasone, and 10 mg oral olanzapine before chemotherapy. On days 2 and 3, patients randomly received 10 mg olanzapine (arm A; n=27), 10 mg olanzapine plus 4 mg dexamethasone (arm B; n=27), or 8 mg dexamethasone (reference arm C; n=27). The primary endpoint was total control (TC; no vomiting, no rescue antiemetics, and no nausea) on days 2-5, using a diary. Secondary endpoints included proportion of patients with no emesis impact on daily life using the Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire, and patient's satisfaction with antiemetic coverage. RESULTS: Fifty-two percent of patients in arm A (P=0.406), 59% in arm B (P=0.779), and 67% in arm C had a delayed TC. Secondary analyses showed no significant difference across arms in any efficacy endpoint. FLIE scores as well as mean satisfaction scores were similar across arms. CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory study with a small sample size, we did not find any clue about better control of delayed emesis with either olanzapine regimen in gynecologic cancer patients treated with carboplatin/paclitaxel and receiving the same prophylaxis for acute emesis.
30945623	Palonosetron	Vomiting	1	0	0	0		Short-course olanzapine to prevent delayed emesis following carboplatin/paclitaxel for gynecologic cancer: a randomised study.	PURPOSE: To explore efficacy of short-course olanzapine with or without low-dose dexamethasone for prevention of delayed emesis in gynecologic cancer patients receiving carboplatin/paclitaxel. METHODS: This was a prospective study in 81 chemo-naive patients receiving 0.25 mg intravenous palonosetron, 16 mg dexamethasone, and 10 mg oral olanzapine before chemotherapy. On days 2 and 3, patients randomly received 10 mg olanzapine (arm A; n=27), 10 mg olanzapine plus 4 mg dexamethasone (arm B; n=27), or 8 mg dexamethasone (reference arm C; n=27). The primary endpoint was total control (TC; no vomiting, no rescue antiemetics, and no nausea) on days 2-5, using a diary. Secondary endpoints included proportion of patients with no emesis impact on daily life using the Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire, and patient's satisfaction with antiemetic coverage. RESULTS: Fifty-two percent of patients in arm A (P=0.406), 59% in arm B (P=0.779), and 67% in arm C had a delayed TC. Secondary analyses showed no significant difference across arms in any efficacy endpoint. FLIE scores as well as mean satisfaction scores were similar across arms. CONCLUSIONS: In this exploratory study with a small sample size, we did not find any clue about better control of delayed emesis with either olanzapine regimen in gynecologic cancer patients treated with carboplatin/paclitaxel and receiving the same prophylaxis for acute emesis.
30878954	Calcium Carbonate	Pancreatitis	1	1	0	1	0.0	Rare complication of milk-alkali ingestion: severe pancreatitis and acute kidney injury in a chronic hypocalcaemic patient with DiGeorge's syndrome.	Injudicious use of over-the-counter calcium supplements has resulted in increased incidences of hypercalcaemia and related complications. We present a case of acute pancreatitis in a chronic hypocalcaemic patient of DiGeorge's syndrome. The patient came into the ED with sepsis syndrome, right upper quadrant and epigastric pain and no obvious source of infection. Lab results and imaging were indicative of acute pancreatitis. There was severe renal dysfunction. The patient needed haemodialysis and had a prolonged stay in intensive care. The medical history was negative for biliary duct pathology or alcohol use. The patient had vomiting and diarrhoea in the nursing home for about a week, but she continued to receive her regular medications that included the calcium supplements and thiazide diuretics. It is likely that a complex interplay between calcium supplementation, dehydration and thiazide diuretics resulted in the development of acute pancreatitis and severe renal dysfunction in a chronic hypocalcaemic patient.
30868068	Nevirapine	Diabetes Mellitus	1	1	0	0	0.0	Changes in Lipid Indices in HIV+ Cases on HAART.	We assess long-term changes in lipid levels in human immunodeficiency disease- (HIV-) infected patients undergoing highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART) and their association with diabetes mellitus (DM) and thyroid dysfunction. We observed changes in the levels of total cholesterol (TC) and total triglyceride (TG) of 63 HIV-infected patients in the 6 years from starting HAART and analyzed correlations between relevant parameters. TC levels of patients with normal baseline TC levels as well as those diagnosed with DM or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) increased significantly (P  < 0.05) as did the TG levels of patients with normal baseline TG levels (P  < 0.05). TC levels of patients with hypercholesterolemia in the year HAART was initiated were significantly higher than those of patients with normal baseline TC levels (P  < 0.05) for all 6 years. TC levels of patients diagnosed with DM were significantly higher than those with euglycemia (P  < 0.05) 2 and 4 years after HAART commencement. Levels of TC, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) were correlated negatively with viral load, whereas levels of TC and very-low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-C) were correlated positively with CD4+ cell counts before HAART commencement. Linear mixed-effect model demonstrated disturbance of glucose metabolism and HAART containing nevirapine and CD4+ cell count were positively correlated with TC levels after HAART commencement. These findings suggest that there are changes in the lipid levels of patients undergoing HAART, with the potential risk of dyslipidemia.
30868068	Nevirapine	Thyroid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Changes in Lipid Indices in HIV+ Cases on HAART.	We assess long-term changes in lipid levels in human immunodeficiency disease- (HIV-) infected patients undergoing highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART) and their association with diabetes mellitus (DM) and thyroid dysfunction. We observed changes in the levels of total cholesterol (TC) and total triglyceride (TG) of 63 HIV-infected patients in the 6 years from starting HAART and analyzed correlations between relevant parameters. TC levels of patients with normal baseline TC levels as well as those diagnosed with DM or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) increased significantly (P  < 0.05) as did the TG levels of patients with normal baseline TG levels (P  < 0.05). TC levels of patients with hypercholesterolemia in the year HAART was initiated were significantly higher than those of patients with normal baseline TC levels (P  < 0.05) for all 6 years. TC levels of patients diagnosed with DM were significantly higher than those with euglycemia (P  < 0.05) 2 and 4 years after HAART commencement. Levels of TC, high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) were correlated negatively with viral load, whereas levels of TC and very-low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-C) were correlated positively with CD4+ cell counts before HAART commencement. Linear mixed-effect model demonstrated disturbance of glucose metabolism and HAART containing nevirapine and CD4+ cell count were positively correlated with TC levels after HAART commencement. These findings suggest that there are changes in the lipid levels of patients undergoing HAART, with the potential risk of dyslipidemia.
30852498	Amoxicillin	Sexually Transmitted Diseases	1	1	1	1	1.0	Anaphylaxis probably induced by transfer of amoxicillin via oral sex.	We present a case of a possible amoxicillin-induced anaphylaxis in a sensitive woman triggered by an instance of oral sexual contact with a man who was taking amoxicillin-clavulanic acid treatment.To our knowledge, this is the first case reported of a suspicion of amoxicillin-induced anaphylaxis in a woman after a sexual contact with a man who was taking the drug, we hypothesised an oral drug transfer through semen.Studies about amoxicillin concentrations achieved in semen after a drug intake are scarce. There are few cases reported of hypersensitivity reactions induced by drugs transported in semen but we have found some concern in sensitive patients about the possibility of transference of allergens via sexual intercourse. As clinicians, we consider that it is important to be aware of the existence of this possibility both in the diagnosis and in the prevention of anaphylactic reactions.
30350190	Irinotecan	Mucositis	0	1	0	0		Amitriptyline prevents CPT-11-induced early-onset diarrhea and colonic apoptosis without reducing overall gastrointestinal damage in a rat model of mucositis.	PURPOSE: Gastrointestinal mucositis (GIM) is one of the most debilitating side effects of the chemotherapy agent, irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11). The toll-like receptor (TLR) pathway is a key mediator implicated in the pathophysiology underlying GIM. The tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline has been shown to inhibit TLR2 and TLR4 activity in in vitro models. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the effect of amitriptyline on the development of GIM following CPT-11. METHODS: Male albino Wistar rats were treated with either CPT-11 (125 mg/kg, i.p., n = 18), amitriptyline (20 mg/kg, n = 18), both agents (n = 18), or vehicle control (n = 18) and killed at 6, 48, or 96 h. Differences between groups in measurements of gastrointestinal toxicity (diarrhea and weight loss), mucosal injury (apoptosis and histopathology score), colonic expression of TLRs, and pro-inflammatory cytokines were determined. RESULTS: CPT-11-induced diarrhea and colonic apoptosis were inhibited by amitriptyline at 6 h. However, rats were not protected from weight loss or mucosal injury over the time course of CPT-11-induced GIM. Interleukin-1 beta transcript expression was significantly decreased with amitriptyline treatment at 6 h, although protein expression did not differ between groups. There was no change in TLR4 or TLR2 expression in any group. CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic amitriptyline was able to inhibit early intestinal damage in this rat model of CPT-11-induced GIM, but exacerbated late-onset injury. These findings do not support use of amitriptyline as an approach for mitigation of GIM in this setting.
30173204	Linezolid	Optic Neuritis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Drug-induced optic neuropathy in a case of extensively drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis.	We report a 26-year-old male patient diagnosed with extensively drug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis presenting with reversible bilateral toxic optic neuropathy induced by the use of linezolid along with high-dose isoniazid. The case emphasizes the importance of recognizing toxic optic neuritis in patients on antitubercular therapy. Prompt recognition and treatment of such adverse drug reactions will reduce the associated morbidity.
30959557	Nivolumab	Pruritus	0	0	0	0		Long-term follow up of nivolumab in previously untreated Japanese patients with advanced or recurrent malignant melanoma.	The immune checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab inhibits the programmed death 1 receptor and suppresses the immune resistance of cancer cells. This is a long-term follow up of a single-arm, open-label, multicenter, phase II study of nivolumab in untreated Japanese patients with stage III/IV or recurrent melanoma. In addition, a post-hoc subgroup analysis stratified by melanoma types was performed. Nivolumab was administered intravenously at a dose of 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The primary endpoint was the overall response rate (ORR), and secondary endpoints included overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), best overall response, the disease control rate and change in tumor diameter. Safety was assessed by recording treatment-related adverse events (TRAE), including select immune-related adverse events. Of the 24 patients initially included in the primary phase II study, 10 survived for over 3 years (41.7%). The ORR was 34.8% (90% confidence interval [CI]: 20.8, 51.9) for all patients. When analyzing by melanoma type, the ORR was 66.7% (90% CI: 34.7, 88.3) for superficial spreading, 33.3% (90% CI: 11.7, 65.3) for mucosal, and 28.6% (90% CI: 10.0, 59.1) for acral lentiginous tumors. The median OS was 32.9 months, the 3-year OS rate was 43.5%, and the 3-year PFS rate was 17.2%. A long-term response was observed in all the tumor types. The most common TRAE included skin toxicity (45.8%) and endocrine disorders (29.2%). This study demonstrated the long-term efficacy and tolerability of nivolumab in patients with advanced or recurrent melanoma, irrespective of melanoma type.
30959557	Nivolumab	Vitiligo	0	0	0	0		Long-term follow up of nivolumab in previously untreated Japanese patients with advanced or recurrent malignant melanoma.	The immune checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab inhibits the programmed death 1 receptor and suppresses the immune resistance of cancer cells. This is a long-term follow up of a single-arm, open-label, multicenter, phase II study of nivolumab in untreated Japanese patients with stage III/IV or recurrent melanoma. In addition, a post-hoc subgroup analysis stratified by melanoma types was performed. Nivolumab was administered intravenously at a dose of 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The primary endpoint was the overall response rate (ORR), and secondary endpoints included overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), best overall response, the disease control rate and change in tumor diameter. Safety was assessed by recording treatment-related adverse events (TRAE), including select immune-related adverse events. Of the 24 patients initially included in the primary phase II study, 10 survived for over 3 years (41.7%). The ORR was 34.8% (90% confidence interval [CI]: 20.8, 51.9) for all patients. When analyzing by melanoma type, the ORR was 66.7% (90% CI: 34.7, 88.3) for superficial spreading, 33.3% (90% CI: 11.7, 65.3) for mucosal, and 28.6% (90% CI: 10.0, 59.1) for acral lentiginous tumors. The median OS was 32.9 months, the 3-year OS rate was 43.5%, and the 3-year PFS rate was 17.2%. A long-term response was observed in all the tumor types. The most common TRAE included skin toxicity (45.8%) and endocrine disorders (29.2%). This study demonstrated the long-term efficacy and tolerability of nivolumab in patients with advanced or recurrent melanoma, irrespective of melanoma type.
30948910	Infliximab	Colitis, Ulcerative	1	0	0	0		Anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha therapy associates to type 17 helper T lymphocytes immunological shift and significant microbial changes in dextran sodium sulphate colitis.	"BACKGROUND: Anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) represents the best therapeutic option to induce mucosal healing and clinical remission in patients with moderate-severe ulcerative colitis. On the other side gut microbiota plays a crucial role in pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis but few information exists on how microbiota changes following anti-TNFalpha therapy and on microbiota role in mucosal healing. AIM: To elucidate whether gut microbiota and immune system changes appear following anti TNFalpha therapy during dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) colitis. METHODS: Eighty C57BL/6 mice were divided into four groups: ""No DSS"", ""No DSS + anti-TNFalpha"", ""DSS"" and ""DSS + anti-TNFalpha"". ""DSS"" and ""DSS + anti-TNFalpha"" were treated for 5 d with 3% DSS. At day 3, mice whithin ""No DSS+anti-TNFalpha"" and ""DSS+anti-TNFalpha"" group received 5 mg/kg of an anti-TNFalpha agent. Forty mice were sacrificed at day 5, forty at day 12, after one week of recovery post DSS. The severity of colitis was assessed by a clinical score (Disease Activity Index), colon length and histology. Bacteria such as Bacteroides, Clostridiaceae, Enterococcaceae and Fecalibacterium prausnitzii (F. prausnitzii) were evaluated by quantitative PCR. Type 1 helper T lymphocytes (Th1), type 17 helper T lymphocytes (Th17) and CD4(+) regulatory T lymphocytes (Treg) distributions in the mesenteric lymph node (MLN) were studied by flow cytometry. RESULTS: Bacteria associated with a healthy state (i.e., such as Bacteroides, Clostridiaceae and F. prausnitzii) decreased during colitis and increased in course of anti-TNFalpha treatment. Conversely, microorganisms belonging to Enterococcaceae genera, which are linked to inflammatory processes, showed an opposite trend. Furthermore, in colitic mice treated with anti-TNFalpha microbial changes were associated with an initial increase (day 5 of the colitis) in Treg cells and a consequent decrease (day 12 post DSS) in Th1 and Th17 frequency cells. Healthy mice treated with anti-TNFalpha showed the same histological, microbial and immune features of untreated colitic mice. ""No DSS + anti-TNFalpha"" group showed a lymphomononuclear infiltrate both at 5(th) and 12(th) d at hematoxylin and eosin staining, an increase of in Th1 and Th17 frequency at day 12, an increase of Enterococcaceae at day 5, a decrease of Bacteroides and Clostridiaceae at day 12. CONCLUSION: Anti-TNFalpha treatment in experimental model of colitis improves disease activity but it is associated to an increase in Th17 pathway together with gut microbiota alteration."
30851515	Leflunomide	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	0	0	0		Comparison of combination therapy with methotrexate and sinomenine or leflunomide for active rheumatoid arthritis: A randomized controlled clinical trial.	BACKGROUND: A combination of conventional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs improves the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis but with high side-effects. Methotrexate (MTX) combination therapy that with high therapeutic efficacy and low toxicity is in demand in many countries to replace the use of expensive biological agents. STUDY DESIGN: This study was an open-label, 24-week, parallel randomized controlled trial conducted between November 2015 and December 2017. METHODS: Patients were randomly assigned at a 3:2 ratio to receive MTX combined with sinomenine (SIN) at a dose of 120 mg twice daily, or leflunomide (LEF) at a dose of 20 mg once daily. Efficacy and safety were assessed at weeks 4, 12 and 24. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving an American College of Rheumatology (ACR)50 response and a European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) good response at week 24. RESULTS: A total of 101/120 (84.2%) patients completed 24 weeks of observation. In the intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, 65.3% of patients treated with MTX + SIN showed improved disease activity as determined by the ACR50 response at week 24 compared to 69.6% of patients treated with MTX + LEF. A similar insignificant pattern was found for the ACR20 and ACR70 responses, as well as the clinical disease activity index, EULAR response, and remission and low disease activity rates between these two treatment groups. The per-protocol analysis showed results consistent with those of the ITT analysis. Notably, significant reductions in gastrointestinal adverse reactions and liver toxicity were found in patients treated with MTX + SIN compared to patients treated with MTX + LEF (p < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Considering the balance of efficacy and toxicity, the current study provides evidence that MTX + SIN combination therapy is probably one of the choices for treating patients with active rheumatoid arthritis in addition to MTX + LEF combination therapy.
30850565	Nivolumab	Hypophysitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Nivolumab-induced hypophysitis leading to hypopituitarism and secondary empty sella syndrome in a patient with non-small cell lung cancer.	We describe the clinical course of a 64-year-old woman with stage IVa lung adenocarcinoma who presented with over 1 month of fatigue, unintentional weight loss and emesis. She initiated treatment with nivolumab immunotherapy 1 year prior and had been tolerating the treatment well. A comprehensive workup revealed multiple endocrinological abnormalities consistent with hypophysitis leading to hypopituitarism in the form of central adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadism as well as a partially empty sella on imaging. This case demonstrates that while receiving novel forms of treatment such as immunotherapy, patients should be monitored closely for a wide range of adverse effects.
30574797	Aprepitant	Fatigue	0	0	0	0		HTX-019 via 2-min injection or 30-min infusion in healthy subjects.	AIM: HTX-019 (CINVANTI((R)) [aprepitant injectable emulsion]) is a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist approved for preventing acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). HTX-019 is free of polysorbate 80 and other synthetic surfactants and showed bioequivalence to and a more favorable safety profile than fosaprepitant when administered as a 30-min infusion in healthy subjects. The shortage of small-volume parenteral solutions led to a recommendation to administer HTX-019 by intravenous push. The objectives were to evaluate pharmacokinetics, tolerability and safety following HTX-019 administration by injection versus infusion. MATERIALS & METHODS: Study comprised Part A, a pilot Phase I, single-center, randomized, pharmacokinetic, safety and tolerability, open-label study, followed by Part B, a two-sequence crossover study of HTX-019 130 mg in healthy adults, via injection and infusion. Blood samples were evaluated for aprepitant pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence. Safety evaluations included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), vital signs, clinical laboratory testing and electrocardiograms. RESULTS: In Part A, 24 subjects were randomly assigned to three cohorts (n = 8 per cohort) and received HTX-019 130 mg, administered intravenously over 15 min (cohort 1), 5 min (cohort 2) or 2 min (cohort 3). Progression to Part B occurred after acceptable tolerability was established in cohorts 2 and 3. In Part B, 50 randomized subjects received a 2-min injection (9 ml/min) and 30-min infusion (296 ml/h) of HTX-019 130 mg. Bioequivalence was demonstrated for HTX-019 injection and infusion. Both administration methods via a peripheral line were well tolerated; eight subjects experienced 11 TEAEs (six related) following injection and nine experienced 14 TEAEs (nine related) following infusion. Headache and fatigue were the most prevalent treatment-related TEAEs; one subject per group experienced feeling hot </=30 min after drug administration. CONCLUSION: Pharmacokinetic and tolerability profiles of 2-min HTX-019 injection support this potential alternative administration method for CINV prevention.
30574797	Aprepitant	Headache	0	0	0	0		HTX-019 via 2-min injection or 30-min infusion in healthy subjects.	AIM: HTX-019 (CINVANTI((R)) [aprepitant injectable emulsion]) is a neurokinin 1 receptor antagonist approved for preventing acute and delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). HTX-019 is free of polysorbate 80 and other synthetic surfactants and showed bioequivalence to and a more favorable safety profile than fosaprepitant when administered as a 30-min infusion in healthy subjects. The shortage of small-volume parenteral solutions led to a recommendation to administer HTX-019 by intravenous push. The objectives were to evaluate pharmacokinetics, tolerability and safety following HTX-019 administration by injection versus infusion. MATERIALS & METHODS: Study comprised Part A, a pilot Phase I, single-center, randomized, pharmacokinetic, safety and tolerability, open-label study, followed by Part B, a two-sequence crossover study of HTX-019 130 mg in healthy adults, via injection and infusion. Blood samples were evaluated for aprepitant pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence. Safety evaluations included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), vital signs, clinical laboratory testing and electrocardiograms. RESULTS: In Part A, 24 subjects were randomly assigned to three cohorts (n = 8 per cohort) and received HTX-019 130 mg, administered intravenously over 15 min (cohort 1), 5 min (cohort 2) or 2 min (cohort 3). Progression to Part B occurred after acceptable tolerability was established in cohorts 2 and 3. In Part B, 50 randomized subjects received a 2-min injection (9 ml/min) and 30-min infusion (296 ml/h) of HTX-019 130 mg. Bioequivalence was demonstrated for HTX-019 injection and infusion. Both administration methods via a peripheral line were well tolerated; eight subjects experienced 11 TEAEs (six related) following injection and nine experienced 14 TEAEs (nine related) following infusion. Headache and fatigue were the most prevalent treatment-related TEAEs; one subject per group experienced feeling hot </=30 min after drug administration. CONCLUSION: Pharmacokinetic and tolerability profiles of 2-min HTX-019 injection support this potential alternative administration method for CINV prevention.
30132401	Ipilimumab	Thyroiditis, Autoimmune	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immune-Related Thyroiditis with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors.	BACKGROUND: Although immune-related thyroiditis (irT) with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) is a common consequence, its natural course and management recommendations are not well characterized in existing guidelines. This study sought to investigate the evolution of irT and describe its course and sequelae. METHODS: This was a retrospective study of cancer patients treated with ICI between November 2014 and July 2016 at MD Anderson Cancer Center and referred for endocrinology evaluation for suspected irT. Patients included had normal baseline thyroid function tests prior to starting ICI and developed thyrotoxicosis due to irT. RESULTS: Of 657 patients treated with ICI during the study period, 43(6.5%) met the inclusion criteria. ICI included: ipilimumab + nivolumab (40%), nivolumab (33%), pembrolizumab (21%), and other (7%). Cancer diagnoses observed were melanoma (23%), renal-cell carcinoma (21%), lung cancer (19%), bladder cancer (12%), colon cancer (9%), and other cancers (15%). Median time from ICI start to thyrotoxicosis was 5.3 weeks (range 0.6-19.6 weeks). Clinically, patients presented with painless thyroiditis, and 67% were asymptomatic during the thyrotoxicosis phase. Thyrotoxicosis lasted a median of six weeks (range 2.6-39.7 weeks). Hypothyroidism developed in 37 (84%) patients at a median of 10.4 weeks (range 3.4-48.7 weeks) after starting ICI. These patients remained on levothyroxine and ICI at a median follow-up of 57.4 weeks (range 1-156.7 weeks) from hypothyroidism onset. Four patients recovered without initiating levothyroxine and remained euthyroid at a median follow-up of 11.35 months (range 4.43-14.43 months). Subgroup analysis of ipilimumab + nivolumab versus nivolumab alone showed a median time to thyrotoxicosis of two weeks [confidence interval (CI) 3.5-8.4] versus six weeks ([CI 1.2-2.8]; p = 0.26) and time to hypothyroidism of 10 weeks [CI 8.1-11.9] versus 17 weeks ([CI 8.8-25.2]; p = 0.029) after starting ICI. Thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies were present in 45% and 33% at the time of irT diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: IrT manifests as an early onset of thyrotoxicosis, which is largely asymptomatic, followed by rapid transition to hypothyroidism requiring long-term levothyroxine substitution. The evolution of irT is more rapid with combination ICI. Frequent monitoring of thyroid function tests during ICI is warranted. Future guidelines need to recognize this entity and incorporate their management.
30132401	Ipilimumab	Thyrotoxicosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immune-Related Thyroiditis with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors.	BACKGROUND: Although immune-related thyroiditis (irT) with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) is a common consequence, its natural course and management recommendations are not well characterized in existing guidelines. This study sought to investigate the evolution of irT and describe its course and sequelae. METHODS: This was a retrospective study of cancer patients treated with ICI between November 2014 and July 2016 at MD Anderson Cancer Center and referred for endocrinology evaluation for suspected irT. Patients included had normal baseline thyroid function tests prior to starting ICI and developed thyrotoxicosis due to irT. RESULTS: Of 657 patients treated with ICI during the study period, 43(6.5%) met the inclusion criteria. ICI included: ipilimumab + nivolumab (40%), nivolumab (33%), pembrolizumab (21%), and other (7%). Cancer diagnoses observed were melanoma (23%), renal-cell carcinoma (21%), lung cancer (19%), bladder cancer (12%), colon cancer (9%), and other cancers (15%). Median time from ICI start to thyrotoxicosis was 5.3 weeks (range 0.6-19.6 weeks). Clinically, patients presented with painless thyroiditis, and 67% were asymptomatic during the thyrotoxicosis phase. Thyrotoxicosis lasted a median of six weeks (range 2.6-39.7 weeks). Hypothyroidism developed in 37 (84%) patients at a median of 10.4 weeks (range 3.4-48.7 weeks) after starting ICI. These patients remained on levothyroxine and ICI at a median follow-up of 57.4 weeks (range 1-156.7 weeks) from hypothyroidism onset. Four patients recovered without initiating levothyroxine and remained euthyroid at a median follow-up of 11.35 months (range 4.43-14.43 months). Subgroup analysis of ipilimumab + nivolumab versus nivolumab alone showed a median time to thyrotoxicosis of two weeks [confidence interval (CI) 3.5-8.4] versus six weeks ([CI 1.2-2.8]; p = 0.26) and time to hypothyroidism of 10 weeks [CI 8.1-11.9] versus 17 weeks ([CI 8.8-25.2]; p = 0.029) after starting ICI. Thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies were present in 45% and 33% at the time of irT diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: IrT manifests as an early onset of thyrotoxicosis, which is largely asymptomatic, followed by rapid transition to hypothyroidism requiring long-term levothyroxine substitution. The evolution of irT is more rapid with combination ICI. Frequent monitoring of thyroid function tests during ICI is warranted. Future guidelines need to recognize this entity and incorporate their management.
30132401	Nivolumab	Thyroiditis, Autoimmune	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immune-Related Thyroiditis with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors.	BACKGROUND: Although immune-related thyroiditis (irT) with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) is a common consequence, its natural course and management recommendations are not well characterized in existing guidelines. This study sought to investigate the evolution of irT and describe its course and sequelae. METHODS: This was a retrospective study of cancer patients treated with ICI between November 2014 and July 2016 at MD Anderson Cancer Center and referred for endocrinology evaluation for suspected irT. Patients included had normal baseline thyroid function tests prior to starting ICI and developed thyrotoxicosis due to irT. RESULTS: Of 657 patients treated with ICI during the study period, 43(6.5%) met the inclusion criteria. ICI included: ipilimumab + nivolumab (40%), nivolumab (33%), pembrolizumab (21%), and other (7%). Cancer diagnoses observed were melanoma (23%), renal-cell carcinoma (21%), lung cancer (19%), bladder cancer (12%), colon cancer (9%), and other cancers (15%). Median time from ICI start to thyrotoxicosis was 5.3 weeks (range 0.6-19.6 weeks). Clinically, patients presented with painless thyroiditis, and 67% were asymptomatic during the thyrotoxicosis phase. Thyrotoxicosis lasted a median of six weeks (range 2.6-39.7 weeks). Hypothyroidism developed in 37 (84%) patients at a median of 10.4 weeks (range 3.4-48.7 weeks) after starting ICI. These patients remained on levothyroxine and ICI at a median follow-up of 57.4 weeks (range 1-156.7 weeks) from hypothyroidism onset. Four patients recovered without initiating levothyroxine and remained euthyroid at a median follow-up of 11.35 months (range 4.43-14.43 months). Subgroup analysis of ipilimumab + nivolumab versus nivolumab alone showed a median time to thyrotoxicosis of two weeks [confidence interval (CI) 3.5-8.4] versus six weeks ([CI 1.2-2.8]; p = 0.26) and time to hypothyroidism of 10 weeks [CI 8.1-11.9] versus 17 weeks ([CI 8.8-25.2]; p = 0.029) after starting ICI. Thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies were present in 45% and 33% at the time of irT diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: IrT manifests as an early onset of thyrotoxicosis, which is largely asymptomatic, followed by rapid transition to hypothyroidism requiring long-term levothyroxine substitution. The evolution of irT is more rapid with combination ICI. Frequent monitoring of thyroid function tests during ICI is warranted. Future guidelines need to recognize this entity and incorporate their management.
30132401	Nivolumab	Thyrotoxicosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Immune-Related Thyroiditis with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors.	BACKGROUND: Although immune-related thyroiditis (irT) with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) is a common consequence, its natural course and management recommendations are not well characterized in existing guidelines. This study sought to investigate the evolution of irT and describe its course and sequelae. METHODS: This was a retrospective study of cancer patients treated with ICI between November 2014 and July 2016 at MD Anderson Cancer Center and referred for endocrinology evaluation for suspected irT. Patients included had normal baseline thyroid function tests prior to starting ICI and developed thyrotoxicosis due to irT. RESULTS: Of 657 patients treated with ICI during the study period, 43(6.5%) met the inclusion criteria. ICI included: ipilimumab + nivolumab (40%), nivolumab (33%), pembrolizumab (21%), and other (7%). Cancer diagnoses observed were melanoma (23%), renal-cell carcinoma (21%), lung cancer (19%), bladder cancer (12%), colon cancer (9%), and other cancers (15%). Median time from ICI start to thyrotoxicosis was 5.3 weeks (range 0.6-19.6 weeks). Clinically, patients presented with painless thyroiditis, and 67% were asymptomatic during the thyrotoxicosis phase. Thyrotoxicosis lasted a median of six weeks (range 2.6-39.7 weeks). Hypothyroidism developed in 37 (84%) patients at a median of 10.4 weeks (range 3.4-48.7 weeks) after starting ICI. These patients remained on levothyroxine and ICI at a median follow-up of 57.4 weeks (range 1-156.7 weeks) from hypothyroidism onset. Four patients recovered without initiating levothyroxine and remained euthyroid at a median follow-up of 11.35 months (range 4.43-14.43 months). Subgroup analysis of ipilimumab + nivolumab versus nivolumab alone showed a median time to thyrotoxicosis of two weeks [confidence interval (CI) 3.5-8.4] versus six weeks ([CI 1.2-2.8]; p = 0.26) and time to hypothyroidism of 10 weeks [CI 8.1-11.9] versus 17 weeks ([CI 8.8-25.2]; p = 0.029) after starting ICI. Thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies were present in 45% and 33% at the time of irT diagnosis. CONCLUSIONS: IrT manifests as an early onset of thyrotoxicosis, which is largely asymptomatic, followed by rapid transition to hypothyroidism requiring long-term levothyroxine substitution. The evolution of irT is more rapid with combination ICI. Frequent monitoring of thyroid function tests during ICI is warranted. Future guidelines need to recognize this entity and incorporate their management.
30048437	Topiramate	Acidosis, Renal Tubular	1	0	0	0		Topiramate induced renal tubular acidosis.	
30048437	Topiramate	Hypokalemia	1	0	0	0		Topiramate induced renal tubular acidosis.	
29779729	Hydralazine	Duodenal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Pseudomelanosis Duodeni in the Setting of Chronic Hydralazine Use.	
29779729	Hydralazine	Pigmentation Disorders	1	0	0	0		Pseudomelanosis Duodeni in the Setting of Chronic Hydralazine Use.	
29511796	Cyclosporine	Stomatitis	0	0	0	0		Pharmacokinetics of intravenous mycophenolate mofetil in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell-transplanted Japanese patients.	PURPOSE: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is increasingly used among Japanese patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT). Because pharmacokinetic data for MMF in the Asian population are limited, we conducted this investigation. METHODS: Intravenous MMF (1000 mg/dose) was administered to 10 patients along with cyclosporine or tacrolimus for 10 days after allo-SCT; it was administered every 8 h in peripheral blood stem cell- and bone marrow-transplanted patients, and every 12 h in cord blood-transplanted patients. MMF was administered orally at the same dose from day 11. Plasma concentrations of mycophenolic acid (MPA) were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. RESULTS: The MPA AUC(0 - tau) was 31.9 +/- 3.4, 26.2 +/- 2.4, and 21.0 +/- 2.2 microg*h/mL, the mean C(trough) was 0.25, 0.35, and 0.37 microg/mL, and the C(max) was 10.8, 9.2, and 5.5 microg/mL on days 2, 9, and 16, respectively. The AUC(0 - tau) and C(max) were significantly higher after intravenous MMF dosing than after oral MMF dosing. All patients exhibited successful neutrophil engraftments in a median time of 18 days. Grade II acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) of the skin was observed in two patients, and one patient developed limited chronic GvHD. Individual cases of transient and curable grade III oral mucositis and diarrhea were observed; however, MMF was not discontinued. No other severe complications or infections were observed. CONCLUSIONS: Intravenously administered MMF was safe and possibly effective in achieving higher MPA plasma concentrations for GvHD prophylaxis after allo-SCT in Japanese patients.
29511796	Mycophenolic Acid	Stomatitis	0	0	0	0		Pharmacokinetics of intravenous mycophenolate mofetil in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell-transplanted Japanese patients.	PURPOSE: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is increasingly used among Japanese patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT). Because pharmacokinetic data for MMF in the Asian population are limited, we conducted this investigation. METHODS: Intravenous MMF (1000 mg/dose) was administered to 10 patients along with cyclosporine or tacrolimus for 10 days after allo-SCT; it was administered every 8 h in peripheral blood stem cell- and bone marrow-transplanted patients, and every 12 h in cord blood-transplanted patients. MMF was administered orally at the same dose from day 11. Plasma concentrations of mycophenolic acid (MPA) were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. RESULTS: The MPA AUC(0 - tau) was 31.9 +/- 3.4, 26.2 +/- 2.4, and 21.0 +/- 2.2 microg*h/mL, the mean C(trough) was 0.25, 0.35, and 0.37 microg/mL, and the C(max) was 10.8, 9.2, and 5.5 microg/mL on days 2, 9, and 16, respectively. The AUC(0 - tau) and C(max) were significantly higher after intravenous MMF dosing than after oral MMF dosing. All patients exhibited successful neutrophil engraftments in a median time of 18 days. Grade II acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) of the skin was observed in two patients, and one patient developed limited chronic GvHD. Individual cases of transient and curable grade III oral mucositis and diarrhea were observed; however, MMF was not discontinued. No other severe complications or infections were observed. CONCLUSIONS: Intravenously administered MMF was safe and possibly effective in achieving higher MPA plasma concentrations for GvHD prophylaxis after allo-SCT in Japanese patients.
29511796	Tacrolimus	Stomatitis	0	0	0	0		Pharmacokinetics of intravenous mycophenolate mofetil in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell-transplanted Japanese patients.	PURPOSE: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is increasingly used among Japanese patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT). Because pharmacokinetic data for MMF in the Asian population are limited, we conducted this investigation. METHODS: Intravenous MMF (1000 mg/dose) was administered to 10 patients along with cyclosporine or tacrolimus for 10 days after allo-SCT; it was administered every 8 h in peripheral blood stem cell- and bone marrow-transplanted patients, and every 12 h in cord blood-transplanted patients. MMF was administered orally at the same dose from day 11. Plasma concentrations of mycophenolic acid (MPA) were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. RESULTS: The MPA AUC(0 - tau) was 31.9 +/- 3.4, 26.2 +/- 2.4, and 21.0 +/- 2.2 microg*h/mL, the mean C(trough) was 0.25, 0.35, and 0.37 microg/mL, and the C(max) was 10.8, 9.2, and 5.5 microg/mL on days 2, 9, and 16, respectively. The AUC(0 - tau) and C(max) were significantly higher after intravenous MMF dosing than after oral MMF dosing. All patients exhibited successful neutrophil engraftments in a median time of 18 days. Grade II acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) of the skin was observed in two patients, and one patient developed limited chronic GvHD. Individual cases of transient and curable grade III oral mucositis and diarrhea were observed; however, MMF was not discontinued. No other severe complications or infections were observed. CONCLUSIONS: Intravenously administered MMF was safe and possibly effective in achieving higher MPA plasma concentrations for GvHD prophylaxis after allo-SCT in Japanese patients.
29505179	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Pregnancy Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse Gestational Outcomes Associated With Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Medication Exposure During Pregnancy.	The use of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) medications during pregnancy has increased in recent years. An earlier article in this column examined whether psychostimulant medications, used to treated ADHD and related disorders, increase the risk of major congenital malformations in pregnancies with first trimester exposure to these drugs. This article examines whether amphetamines, methylphenidate, and atomoxetine exposure during early and late pregnancy are associated with other adverse gestational outcomes. One large and 4 small studies provided data relevant to the inquiry. In unadjusted analyses, amphetamines and methylphenidate were associated with an increased risk of most of the adverse outcomes under study. However, in analyses adjusted for potential confounds, amphetamine exposure during early pregnancy was associated only with an increased risk of preeclampsia; otherwise, amphetamine and methylphenidate exposure was not associated with the risk of preeclampsia, placental abruption, small for gestational age, or preterm birth. Late gestational exposure to psychostimulants was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth but not with the other adverse outcomes. In sensitivity analyses, such as one that examined exposure during weeks 8-18 of gestation, amphetamines were associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia, placental abruption, and preterm birth, and methylphenidate, with an increased risk of preeclampsia. For reasons explained in the text, it may be prudent to err on the side of caution, but in the worst case scenario, the number needed to harm is about 63 for amphetamines exposure and preeclampsia and larger (eg, > 500, indicating less risk) for other adverse outcomes. Atomoxetine was not associated with any adverse gestational outcome, but it is not clear whether this is a true finding or a result of underpowered analyses. In conclusion, women need to weigh the benefits of the ADHD medication that they are using against potential gestational risks when deciding whether or not to continue treatment during pregnancy.
29505179	Methylphenidate	Pregnancy Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Adverse Gestational Outcomes Associated With Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Medication Exposure During Pregnancy.	The use of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) medications during pregnancy has increased in recent years. An earlier article in this column examined whether psychostimulant medications, used to treated ADHD and related disorders, increase the risk of major congenital malformations in pregnancies with first trimester exposure to these drugs. This article examines whether amphetamines, methylphenidate, and atomoxetine exposure during early and late pregnancy are associated with other adverse gestational outcomes. One large and 4 small studies provided data relevant to the inquiry. In unadjusted analyses, amphetamines and methylphenidate were associated with an increased risk of most of the adverse outcomes under study. However, in analyses adjusted for potential confounds, amphetamine exposure during early pregnancy was associated only with an increased risk of preeclampsia; otherwise, amphetamine and methylphenidate exposure was not associated with the risk of preeclampsia, placental abruption, small for gestational age, or preterm birth. Late gestational exposure to psychostimulants was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth but not with the other adverse outcomes. In sensitivity analyses, such as one that examined exposure during weeks 8-18 of gestation, amphetamines were associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia, placental abruption, and preterm birth, and methylphenidate, with an increased risk of preeclampsia. For reasons explained in the text, it may be prudent to err on the side of caution, but in the worst case scenario, the number needed to harm is about 63 for amphetamines exposure and preeclampsia and larger (eg, > 500, indicating less risk) for other adverse outcomes. Atomoxetine was not associated with any adverse gestational outcome, but it is not clear whether this is a true finding or a result of underpowered analyses. In conclusion, women need to weigh the benefits of the ADHD medication that they are using against potential gestational risks when deciding whether or not to continue treatment during pregnancy.
29504153	Irinotecan	Asthenia	1	0	0	0		Relevance of CYP3A4*20, UGT1A1*37 and UGT1A1*28 variants in irinotecan-induced severe toxicity.	Severe irinotecan-induced toxicity is associated with UGT1A1 polymorphisms. However, some patients develop side-effects despite harbouring a normal UGT1A1 genotype. As CYP3A4 is also an irinotecan-metabolizing enzyme, our study aimed to elucidate the influence of the CYP3A4*20 loss-of-function allele in the toxicity profile of these patients. Three-hundred and eight metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with an irinotecan-containing chemotherapy were studied. The presence of CYP3A4*20, UGT1A1*37 and UGT1A1*28 alleles was tested. Associations between these genetic variants and toxicity were evaluated. UGT1A1*28 was significantly associated with severe diarrhoea, neutropenia and asthenia (P = 0.002, P = 0.037 and P = 0.041, respectively). One patient with the UGT1A1*28/*37 genotype presented with grade IV neutropenia and lethal septic shock. One heterozygous UGT1A1 (*1/*28) patient also carried the CYP3A4*20 allele but did not develop toxicity. We confirm that UGT1A1*37 and UGT1A1*28 are associated with severe toxicity and suggest that the CYP3A4*20 allele does not play a role in irinotecan-induced toxicity.
28664318	Sorafenib	Pancreatitis	1	0	0	0		Sorafenib-Induced Acute Pancreatitis: Case Report and Review of the Literature.	
28634101	Infliximab	Anaphylaxis	1	0	0	0		First-dose anaphylaxis to infliximab: a case of mammalian meat allergy.	
28634099	Meglumine	Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Fatal anaphylaxis caused by gadolinium due to beta-tryptase-induced hemorragic diathesis.	
28301414	Cefuroxime	Panuveitis	1	1	0	0	0.0	OCULAR TOXICITY AFTER INADVERTENT INTRACAMERAL INJECTION OF HIGH DOSE OF CEFUROXIME DURING CATARACT SURGERY: A CASE SERIES.	PURPOSE: To report ocular side effects after inadvertent intracameral injection of a high dose of cefuroxime. METHODS: Nineteen eyes of 19 patients were seen in our eye department 1 week after the referring surgeon had injected an erroneous dose of intracameral cefuroxime (12.5 mg/0.1 mL in 14 patients, Group A, and 10 mg/0.1 mL in 5 patients, Group B) at the end of a cataract surgery. A complete ophthalmic examination was performed postoperatively. RESULTS: Eight patients (42.10%) exhibited ocular side effects. One patient (Group A) developed a noninfectious panuveitis. One case (Group B) had a serous macular detachment. Five patients (4 from Group A and 1 from Group B) showed a disruption of the ellipsoid layer with temporary/permanent drop in visual acuity. One patient presented with color alteration (Group A), but electrodiagnostic studies did not reveal any significant alterations. CONCLUSION: Anterior and posterior inflammation has been described after intracameral injection of high dose of cefuroxime. In this study, 10 mg to 12.5 mg of intracameral cefuroxime is shown to be, principally, toxic to the retina with transient or permanent retinal changes on optical coherence tomography which correlate with visual outcomes postoperatively. Protocols to avoid dilution errors should be available in theaters during cataract surgery where such commercial preparations are not available.
28301414	Cefuroxime	Vision Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	OCULAR TOXICITY AFTER INADVERTENT INTRACAMERAL INJECTION OF HIGH DOSE OF CEFUROXIME DURING CATARACT SURGERY: A CASE SERIES.	PURPOSE: To report ocular side effects after inadvertent intracameral injection of a high dose of cefuroxime. METHODS: Nineteen eyes of 19 patients were seen in our eye department 1 week after the referring surgeon had injected an erroneous dose of intracameral cefuroxime (12.5 mg/0.1 mL in 14 patients, Group A, and 10 mg/0.1 mL in 5 patients, Group B) at the end of a cataract surgery. A complete ophthalmic examination was performed postoperatively. RESULTS: Eight patients (42.10%) exhibited ocular side effects. One patient (Group A) developed a noninfectious panuveitis. One case (Group B) had a serous macular detachment. Five patients (4 from Group A and 1 from Group B) showed a disruption of the ellipsoid layer with temporary/permanent drop in visual acuity. One patient presented with color alteration (Group A), but electrodiagnostic studies did not reveal any significant alterations. CONCLUSION: Anterior and posterior inflammation has been described after intracameral injection of high dose of cefuroxime. In this study, 10 mg to 12.5 mg of intracameral cefuroxime is shown to be, principally, toxic to the retina with transient or permanent retinal changes on optical coherence tomography which correlate with visual outcomes postoperatively. Protocols to avoid dilution errors should be available in theaters during cataract surgery where such commercial preparations are not available.
28301410	Bevacizumab	Dyspnea	1	1	0	0	0.0	ALLERGIC REACTION UPON INTRAVITREAL ADMINISTRATION OF ANTI-VASCULAR ENDOTHELIAL GROWTH FACTOR AGENTS.	PURPOSE: To describe the patient's allergic response to anti-vascular endothelial growth factor drugs after receiving intravitreal bevacizumab for choroidal neovascularization. METHODS: Clinical case report. RESULTS: Formal allergy evaluation revealed hypersensitivity to bevacizumab and ranibizumab, but not to pegaptanib or aflibercept. CONCLUSION: Bevacizumab and ranibizumab are derivatives of murine monoclonal antibodies, whereas pegaptanib is an aptamer and aflibercept is a fusion protein of human origin. These chemical origins may allow patients to receive pegaptanib or aflibercept despite having allergy to bevacizumab or ranibizumab.
30969260	Immunoglobulin G	Calcinosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ectopic Ocular Surface Calcification in Patients With Hypophosphatasia Treated With Asfotase Alfa.	PURPOSE: To assess for ectopic ocular calcification in a series of patients with hypophosphatasia (HPP) treated with asfotase alfa, a recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase. METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of subjects enrolled at Duke University Medical Center in ENB-009-10 (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01163149), a randomized controlled trial of asfotase alfa in adolescents and adults with HPP. Seven patients between the ages of 45 and 66 years diagnosed with HPP based on clinical features and low serum alkaline phosphatase levels were enrolled at our site. Subjects were randomized to receive either daily subcutaneous injections of asfotase alfa or no treatment. After 24 weeks, during the open-label extension phase, all subjects received treatment for at least 4 years. All subjects underwent comprehensive eye examinations at baseline and at 24-week intervals throughout the study to assess for development of ocular calcifications. RESULTS: By week 120, all 7 subjects developed asymptomatic white refractile deposits in the interpalpebral perilimbal conjunctiva. Biopsy of the conjunctival lesions in 2 subjects revealed elastosis with subepithelial calcification. The lesions were nonprogressive and in 5 subjects exhibited some degree of regression. CONCLUSIONS: Asfotase alfa was invariably associated with development of mild focal conjunctival calcification, likely through disinhibition of hydroxyapatite crystal propagation. The calcifications were not symptomatic or vision-threatening and should not preclude enzyme replacement therapy for patients with this rare and often debilitating disease.
30969260	Immunoglobulin G	Conjunctival Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Ectopic Ocular Surface Calcification in Patients With Hypophosphatasia Treated With Asfotase Alfa.	PURPOSE: To assess for ectopic ocular calcification in a series of patients with hypophosphatasia (HPP) treated with asfotase alfa, a recombinant tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase. METHODS: This is a retrospective analysis of subjects enrolled at Duke University Medical Center in ENB-009-10 (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01163149), a randomized controlled trial of asfotase alfa in adolescents and adults with HPP. Seven patients between the ages of 45 and 66 years diagnosed with HPP based on clinical features and low serum alkaline phosphatase levels were enrolled at our site. Subjects were randomized to receive either daily subcutaneous injections of asfotase alfa or no treatment. After 24 weeks, during the open-label extension phase, all subjects received treatment for at least 4 years. All subjects underwent comprehensive eye examinations at baseline and at 24-week intervals throughout the study to assess for development of ocular calcifications. RESULTS: By week 120, all 7 subjects developed asymptomatic white refractile deposits in the interpalpebral perilimbal conjunctiva. Biopsy of the conjunctival lesions in 2 subjects revealed elastosis with subepithelial calcification. The lesions were nonprogressive and in 5 subjects exhibited some degree of regression. CONCLUSIONS: Asfotase alfa was invariably associated with development of mild focal conjunctival calcification, likely through disinhibition of hydroxyapatite crystal propagation. The calcifications were not symptomatic or vision-threatening and should not preclude enzyme replacement therapy for patients with this rare and often debilitating disease.
30848671	Cadmium	Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects	0	1	0	0		Early-Life Cadmium Exposure and Bone-Related Biomarkers: A Longitudinal Study in Children.	BACKGROUND: Chronic cadmium exposure has been associated with osteotoxicity in adults, but little is known concerning its effects on early growth, which has been shown to be impaired by cadmium. OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to assess the impact of early-life cadmium exposure on bone-related biomarkers and anthropometry at 9 y of age. METHODS: For 504 children in a mother-child cohort in Bangladesh, cadmium exposure was assessed by concentrations in urine (U-Cd, long-term exposure) and erythrocytes (Ery-Cd, ongoing exposure) at 9 and 4.5 y of age, and in their mothers during pregnancy. Biomarkers of bone remodeling [urinary deoxypyridinoline (DPD), urinary calcium, plasma parathyroid hormone, osteocalcin, vitamin D3, insulin-like growth factor (IGF) 1, IGF binding protein 3, thyroid stimulating hormone] were measured at 9 y of age. RESULTS: In multivariable-adjusted linear models, a doubling of concurrent U-Cd was associated with a mean increase in osteocalcin of [Formula: see text] (95% CI: 0.042, 5.9) and in urinary DPD of [Formula: see text] (95% CI: 12, 32). In a combined exposure model, a doubling of maternal Ery-Cd was associated with a mean increase in urinary DPD of [Formula: see text] (95% CI: [Formula: see text], 30). Stratifying the osteocalcin model by gender ([Formula: see text] 0.001), a doubling of concurrent U-Cd was associated with a mean decrease in osteocalcin of [Formula: see text] (95% CI: [Formula: see text], [Formula: see text]) in boys and a mean increase of [Formula: see text] (95% CI: 5.4, 13) in girls. The same pattern was seen with U-Cd at 4.5 y of age ([Formula: see text] 0.016). Children's U-Cd and Ery-Cd, concurrent and at 4.5 y of age, were inversely associated with vitamin D3. CONCLUSIONS: Childhood cadmium exposure was associated with several bone-related biomarkers and some of the associations differed by gender. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP3655.
30308083	Ipilimumab	Thyroiditis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Thyroiditis and immune check point inhibitors: the post-marketing experience using the French National Pharmacovigilance database.	Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) for cancer has become increasingly prescribed in recent years. Indeed, it is used to treat both solid and hematological malignancies due to their considerable potential in treating melanoma, non-small cell lung and other cancers. Immune-mediated related adverse endocrine toxicity, and especially thyroiditis, is seen as a growing problem needing specific screening and management. This study aims at describing thyroid dysfunctions induced by the ICIs marketed in France, which are registered in the French Pharmacovigilance database. This database was queried for nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and ipilimumab-induced adverse drug reactions reported before April 30, 2017. Both a pharmacologist and an endocrinologist have reviewed each case to select only those of peripheral thyroiditis (thyrotoxicosis and hypothyroidism). During this period, 110 thyroiditis following ICI therapy were reported. Sex/ratio was around one. Most of the cases (47.2%) were asymptomatic. Although some thyrotoxicosis cases were severe, no orbitopathy was reported. Hypothyroidism and thyrotoxicosis were equally described. Antithyroid antibodies were positive in only 16% patients. The ultrasonography was informative in 19% patients. Levothyroxine supplementation was necessary in 57% patients, leading to 19% recovery. With a dedicated optimized management, most of the cases did not require immunotherapy discontinuation. Finally, immune-mediated related thyroiditis is increasing due to a wider prescription of ICI therapy in various cancer conditions and systematic screening. Often asymptomatic, they lead to a local activation accompanied by hormonal deficiency in the long run. It is necessary to carry out an early and sustained multidisciplinary screening to allow immunotherapy continuation.
30306637	Voriconazole	Inflammation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Inflammation is a potential risk factor of voriconazole overdose in hematological patients.	Voriconazole (VRC) overdoses are frequent and expose patients at high risk of adverse effects. This case-control study performed in hematological patients who benefited from VRC therapeutic drug monitoring from January 2012 to December 2015 aimed to identify risk factors of VRC overdose. Pharmacogenetic, biological, and demographic parameters at the time of VRC trough concentration (C(min) ) were retrospectively collected from medical records. Cases (VRC overdose: defined by a VRC C(min) >/= 4 mg/L; n = 31) were compared to controls (no VRC overdose: defined by VRC C(min) < 4 mg/L; n = 31) using nonparametric or chi-square tests followed by multivariable analysis. VRC overdoses were significantly associated with high CRP and bilirubin levels, intravenous administration, and age in univariable analysis. In contrast, the proportion of CYP genotypes (CYP2C19, CYP3A4, or CYP3A5, considered alone or combined in a combined genetic score) were not significantly different between patients who experienced a VRC overdose and those who did not. In multivariable analysis, the class of CRP level (defined by median CRP levels of 96 mg/L) was the sole independent risk factor of VRC overdose (P < 0.01). Patients with CRP levels > 96 mg/L) had a 27-fold (IC 95%: [6-106]) higher risk of VRC overdose than patients with CRP levels </= 96 mg/L. This study demonstrates that inflammatory status, assessed by CRP levels, is the main risk factor of VRC overdose in French hematological patients, whereas pharmacogenetic determinants do not appear to be involved.
30301770	Infliximab	Constriction, Pathologic	1	0	0	0		Rare cause of rectal stenosis in a patient with long-term use of Infliximab and Mercaptopurine for ulcerative colitis.	
30301770	Infliximab	Rectal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Rare cause of rectal stenosis in a patient with long-term use of Infliximab and Mercaptopurine for ulcerative colitis.	
30301770	Mercaptopurine	Constriction, Pathologic	1	0	0	0		Rare cause of rectal stenosis in a patient with long-term use of Infliximab and Mercaptopurine for ulcerative colitis.	
30301770	Mercaptopurine	Rectal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Rare cause of rectal stenosis in a patient with long-term use of Infliximab and Mercaptopurine for ulcerative colitis.	
30234413	Nitrous Oxide	Quadriplegia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Imaging appearance of myelopathy secondary to nitrous oxide abuse: a case report and review of the literature.	Purpose The abuse of nitrous oxide (N(2)O) can induce Vitamin B(12) deficiency that subsequently leads to central nervous demyelination, myelopathy and peripheral neuropathy. Although myelopathy has been reported in the past, the specific locations and prognosis of the disease are still unclear. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We report the case of a 22-year-old male who presented with quadriplegia that began after a 3-month history of inhalation of N(2)O. We summarized the clinical data of this entity and performed a comprehensive literature review of various presentations and MRI features of myelopathy secondary to N(2)O abuse. RESULTS: In combination with previous reports of 14 cases, we found that the onset of the disease was usually subacute, and the majority of patients (92.85%) were young men. There was no definite relationship between myelopathy and the amount or duration of N(2)O inhalation. The most common clinical manifestation was sensory ataxia, and the cervical spinal cord was the most frequently impaired area of the whole spinal cord. The spinal cord lesions had a high signal intensity on T2-weighted MRI and usually involved more than three spinal segments and impaired the posterior column more significantly. Most patients recovered well after vitamin B(12) supplementation. CONCLUSIONS: Myelopathy secondary to N(2)O abuse is generally seen in young men. The clinical diagnosis mainly depends on a history of N(2)O inhalation and the characteristic imaging changes in the posterior cervical spinal cord. Early diagnosis and intervention are important for a satisfactory prognosis.
29931409	Metformin	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	0	0	0		Role of metformin in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with stage III colorectal cancer: randomized, controlled study.	"PURPOSE: Peripheral sensory neuropathy is the most prominently reported adverse effect of oxaliplatin. The purpose of this study was to evaluate metformin role in oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From November 2014 to May 2016, 40 patients with stage III colorectal cancer completed 12 cycles of FOLFOX-4 regimen. Twenty patients in the control arm received FOLFOX-4 regimen only, and 20 patients in the metformin arm, received the same regimen along with metformin 500 mg three times daily. The metformin efficacy was evaluated using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE version 4.0), a12-item neurotoxicity questionnaire (Ntx-12) from the validated Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group and, the brief pain inventory short form ""worst pain"" item. In addition to neurotensin, malondialdehyde and interleukin-6 serum levels assessment. RESULTS: At the end of the 12th cycle, there were less patients with grade 2 and 3 neuropathy in metformin arm as compared to control arm. (60 versus 95%, P = 0.009) In addition, metformin arm showed significantly higher total scores of Ntx-12 questionnaire than control arm (24.0 versus 19.2, P < 0.001). Furthermore, the mean pain score in metformin arm was significantly lower than those of control arm, (6.7 versus 7.3, P = 0.005). Mean serum levels of malondialdehyde and neurotensin were significantly lower in metformin arm after the 6th and the 12th cycles. CONCLUSION: Metformin may be a promising drug in protecting colorectal cancer patients against oxaliplatin-induced chronic peripheral sensory neuropathy."
29869680	Polyethylene Glycols	Febrile Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Reduced dose pegfilgrastim is associated with less bone pain without increased neutropenia: a retrospective study.	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy for breast cancer is associated with a high risk of neutropenia. Pegfilgrastim reduces the risk of neutropenic fever but commonly causes bone pain. OBJECTIVE: Evaluate whether a reduced dose of pegfilgrastim (3 mg) reduced the frequency of bone pain without compromising efficacy. METHODS: Records reviewed from breast cancer patients who received at least one 3 mg dose of pegfilgrastim, white blood count (WBC), and absolute granulocyte counts (AGC) were collected. Musculoskeletal pain scale was collected at each visit. RESULTS: 265 treatments from 36 women were analyzed. There was no difference in post-treatment AGC between 3 versus 6 mg. Leukocytosis (WBC > 20,000 cells/cu mm) was more likely for those treated with 6 mg (chi-square 5.265, p = 0.0215). There was higher change in bone pain in patients who received 6 mg doses compared to none or 3 mg. LIMITATIONS: In this retrospective, non-randomized study, we found the majority of patients received the reduced 3 mg dose after intolerance to the 6 mg dose. It is unknown if smaller or larger doses than 3 mg would achieve similar results or whether 3 mg dose would be effective as an initial therapy or for patients receiving different chemotherapy regimens. Pain is observed despite premedication with naproxen and/or loratidine. CONCLUSION: Reduced dose of pegfilgrastim 3 mg was less likely to cause bone pain. The reduced dose was not associated with a significant difference in post-treatment AGC or rate of serious infection.
29869680	Polyethylene Glycols	Musculoskeletal Pain	0	0	0	0		Reduced dose pegfilgrastim is associated with less bone pain without increased neutropenia: a retrospective study.	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy for breast cancer is associated with a high risk of neutropenia. Pegfilgrastim reduces the risk of neutropenic fever but commonly causes bone pain. OBJECTIVE: Evaluate whether a reduced dose of pegfilgrastim (3 mg) reduced the frequency of bone pain without compromising efficacy. METHODS: Records reviewed from breast cancer patients who received at least one 3 mg dose of pegfilgrastim, white blood count (WBC), and absolute granulocyte counts (AGC) were collected. Musculoskeletal pain scale was collected at each visit. RESULTS: 265 treatments from 36 women were analyzed. There was no difference in post-treatment AGC between 3 versus 6 mg. Leukocytosis (WBC > 20,000 cells/cu mm) was more likely for those treated with 6 mg (chi-square 5.265, p = 0.0215). There was higher change in bone pain in patients who received 6 mg doses compared to none or 3 mg. LIMITATIONS: In this retrospective, non-randomized study, we found the majority of patients received the reduced 3 mg dose after intolerance to the 6 mg dose. It is unknown if smaller or larger doses than 3 mg would achieve similar results or whether 3 mg dose would be effective as an initial therapy or for patients receiving different chemotherapy regimens. Pain is observed despite premedication with naproxen and/or loratidine. CONCLUSION: Reduced dose of pegfilgrastim 3 mg was less likely to cause bone pain. The reduced dose was not associated with a significant difference in post-treatment AGC or rate of serious infection.
29570969	Quetiapine Fumarate	Long Term Adverse Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Tardive Dyskinesia: Recognition, Patient Assessment, and Differential Diagnosis.	Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is an involuntary movement disorder associated with antipsychotic treatment. Because of the serious and potentially irreversible nature of TD, accurate diagnosis is crucial. However, diagnosing TD can be challenging, since the subtle and often fluctuating symptoms can be easily mistaken for symptoms of mental illness or other side effects. Although the risk of developing TD in relation to treatment with second-generation antipsychotics is lower than that associated with first-generation antipsychotics, the risk still exists and may be greater than once believed. Clinicians prescribe antipsychotics for a variety of illnesses and may underestimate the possibility of a patient developing TD, thus missing early signs of the disorder. In this ACADEMIC HIGHLIGHTS, experts review the prevalence, phenomenology, risk factors, and impact of TD, illustrated by case examples, and provide valuable clinical information to guide early recognition and accurate diagnosis.
29442417	Ranibizumab	Glaucoma	0	0	0	0		Comparison of ICare tonometry to Goldmann tonometry for the measurement of intraocular pressure changes following intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor injection.	
28980030	Afatinib	Cell Transformation, Neoplastic	1	1	1	1	1.0	[Hyponatremia in a 58-year-old female patient with EGFR-positive lung adenocarcinoma].	The case of a 58-year old female patient with epidermal growth factor-positive pulmonary adenocarcinoma treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor afatinib is reported. After several months of first-line therapy the patient developed severe hyponatremia and tumor reassessment revealed a progressive course of the lung cancer. Rebiopsy showed transformation of the tumor into small-cell lung cancer. Therapy with afatinib was stopped immediately and platin-based chemotherapy was started. This case shows that tumor transformation under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy from non-small-cell into small-cell lung cancer can occur in rare cases.
28980030	Afatinib	Neoplasms, Second Primary	1	1	1	1	1.0	[Hyponatremia in a 58-year-old female patient with EGFR-positive lung adenocarcinoma].	The case of a 58-year old female patient with epidermal growth factor-positive pulmonary adenocarcinoma treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor afatinib is reported. After several months of first-line therapy the patient developed severe hyponatremia and tumor reassessment revealed a progressive course of the lung cancer. Rebiopsy showed transformation of the tumor into small-cell lung cancer. Therapy with afatinib was stopped immediately and platin-based chemotherapy was started. This case shows that tumor transformation under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy from non-small-cell into small-cell lung cancer can occur in rare cases.
28980030	Afatinib	Small Cell Lung Carcinoma	1	1	1	1	1.0	[Hyponatremia in a 58-year-old female patient with EGFR-positive lung adenocarcinoma].	The case of a 58-year old female patient with epidermal growth factor-positive pulmonary adenocarcinoma treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor afatinib is reported. After several months of first-line therapy the patient developed severe hyponatremia and tumor reassessment revealed a progressive course of the lung cancer. Rebiopsy showed transformation of the tumor into small-cell lung cancer. Therapy with afatinib was stopped immediately and platin-based chemotherapy was started. This case shows that tumor transformation under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy from non-small-cell into small-cell lung cancer can occur in rare cases.
28809383	Galactose	Irritable Bowel Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Increasing Symptoms in Irritable Bowel Symptoms With Ingestion of Galacto-Oligosaccharides Are Mitigated by alpha-Galactosidase Treatment.	OBJECTIVES: Galacto-oligosaccharides (GOS) are dietary FODMAPs (fermentable carbohydrates) associated with triggering gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial aimed to assess whether oral alpha-galactosidase co-ingestion with foods high in GOS and low in other FODMAPs would reduce symptoms. METHODS: Patients meeting the Rome III criteria for IBS who were hydrogen-producers on breath testing were recruited. Participants were treated with full-dose (300 GALU (galactosidic units) alpha-galactosidase) and half-dose enzyme (150 GALU alpha-galactosidase), and placebo (glucose) in a random order with </=14 days washout between arms. Following a 3-day low FODMAP run-in period, participants consumed provided diets high in GOS for a further 3-days. Gastrointestinal symptoms were measured daily using a 100 mm visual-analogue-scale, and breath samples taken hourly on the second last day with hydrogen content analysed as area-under-the-curve. RESULTS: Thirty-one patients with IBS (20 IBS-D, 4 IBS-C, 7 IBS-M) completed the study. The addition of high GOS foods resulted in a significant increase in overall symptoms with 21 patients exhibiting GOS-sensitivity (>10 mm increase for overall symptoms). Of those, full-dose enzyme reduced overall symptoms (median 24. 5(IQR 17.5-35.8) vs. 5.5(1.5-15.0) mm; P=0.006) and bloating (20.5(9.5-42.0) vs. 6.5(2.0-15.8); P=0.017). Breath hydrogen production was minimal with no differences seen between placebo and full-dose (P=0.597). CONCLUSIONS: Oral alpha-galactosidase taken with high GOS foods provides a clinically significant reduction in symptoms in GOS-sensitive individuals with IBS. This strategy can be translated into practice to improve tolerance to high GOS foods as an adjunct therapy to the low FODMAP diet.
31088310	Nivolumab	Pemphigoid, Bullous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Disproportionality analysis of bullous pemphigoid adverse events with PD-1 inhibitors in the FDA adverse event reporting system.	Objectives: Bullous pemphigoid, an autoimmune dermatological disease, may be associated with the use of a relatively new anti-cancer drug class, PD-1 inhibitors, which includes pembrolizumab and nivolumab. This paper analyzes the signals between PD-1 inhibitors and bullous pemphigoid based upon the reported real-world data. Methods: A pharmacovigilance analysis was performed on the publicly available Adverse Event Reporting System database of Food and Drug Administration. Disproportionality ratios were used to examine a signal between PD-1 inhibitors and bullous pemphigoid. A heat map was generated to depict the signal between PD -1 inhibitor use and skin toxicity adverse events. Results: The analysis indicated that there is a significant signal (PRR = 13.82 [95% CI: 9.99-19.11], Chi-squared with Yates' correction = 420.48) between pembrolizumab use and bullous pemphigoid and that there is a significant signal (PRR = 13.19 [95% CI: 10.57-16.46], Chi-squared with Yates' correction = 869.71) between nivolumab use and bullous pemphigoid. The signals remained statistically significant after stratifying for sex and age for both pembrolizumab and nivolumab. The signal is supported by 35 case reports in which there was evidence of PD-1 inhibitor use and a pemphigoid adverse event. Conclusion: When prescribing PD-1 inhibitors, physicians should monitor closely for symptoms of bullous pemphigoid.
30875676	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Hyperprolactinemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Aripiprazole for the treatment of duloxetine-induced hyperprolactinemia: A case report.	BACKGROUND: It is well known that aripiprazole co-treatment effectively reduces antipsychotic-induced hyperprolactinemia. However, the effectiveness of aripiprazole to treat high prolactin levels induced by antidepressant drugs with serotoninergic activity, such as duloxetine, remains unknown. CASE PRESENTATION: An 18-year-old female diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD) was treated with 100 mg sertraline once daily. After two weeks, galactorrhoea was observed. Blood biochemical tests revealed an elevated serum prolactin level of 241 ng/mL. Physiological causes and additional potential pathological causes were ruled out. Therefore, sertraline was cross tapered with mirtazapine. Galactorrhoea ceased, but the side-effect of sedation prompted a switch to 40 mg duloxetine twice daily. After two weeks, the patient developed menstrual irregularities and milky discharge concomitant with a serum prolactin level of 205 ng/mL. As a result, duloxetine was decreased to 60 mg once daily, and aripiprazole was initiated at 2.5 mg daily and titrated to 5 mg daily. Two weeks after the initiation of dual therapy, galactorrhoea stopped, and prolactin levels decreased to 118 ng/mL. After eight weeks, prolactin levels decreased to 39 ng/mL, and menstruation returned to normal. After antidepressant therapy finished, prolactin levels normalized to 19 ng/mL. CONCLUSION: The case suggests that adjunctive aripiprazole may be useful as a treatment option for duloxetine-induced hyperprolactinemia in MDD.
30747749	Olanzapine	Delirium	1	1	0	0	0.0	Postinjection Delirium/Sedation Syndrome After 31st Long-Acting Olanzapine Depot Injection.	OBJECTIVE: Long-acting depot preparations of antipsychotics are the mainstay of treatment for patients with schizophrenia who show nonadherence to their medications. Olanzapine pamoate is one of the recently approved long-acting depot psychotropic preparations that have shown its efficacy both in clinical trials and in clinical uses against the illness. However, emerging literature indicates toward a cluster of adverse effects known as postinjection delirium/sedation syndrome (PDSS). METHODS: We here present a case of PDSS in a woman with paranoid schizophrenia. After maintaining well for almost 1(1/2) years, she developed PDSS at her 31st scheduled long-acting olanzapine injection. RESULTS: Several features of PDSS including its mechanism and course have been discussed. CONCLUSIONS: More research is necessary to understand the syndrome and the association between PDSS and long-acting olanzapine injection. Clinicians should keep in mind that PDSS may worsen compliance in an index patient and affect the course of the illness.
30110018	Docetaxel	Oligohydramnios	1	1	0	0	1.0	Use of pertuzumab and trastuzumab during pregnancy.	Trastuzumab and pertuzumab are monoclonal antibodies used for the treatment of breast cancer. Until now, there have been no reports on the use of pertuzumab during pregnancy and on its potential effects on the fetus. Herein, we present a breast cancer patient who received trastuzumab and pertuzumab treatment during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. This 22-year-old patient initially diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast was found to be negative for estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor and positive for human epidermal growth factor receptor in the immunohistochemical examination. At the time of diagnosis, she had metastatic lesions and a protocol of docetaxel, trastuzumab, pertuzumab, q21, and zolendronic acid 4 mg every month was started. Following six courses of therapy, she had near-complete response, and, after administration of the same course of treatment for two additional cycles, treatment with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab was continued. While she was being followed-up with remission, a 20-week pregnancy was detected. A fetal ultrasound examination showed oligohydramnios and right renal agenesis. Treatment was stopped, and the fetus was monitored. After 7 weeks of follow-up, fetal growth retardation and anhydramnios were detected. The pregnancy was terminated. Fetal autopsy showed no urinary system pathology, but macroscopic and microscopic hyperplasia of the right adrenal gland was identified. Concomitant use of pertuzumab and trastuzumab during pregnancy may be associated with an unresolved oligohydramnios and/or anhydramnios risk. Extreme caution should be used when these monoclonal antibodies are administered during pregnancy.
30054949	Dasatinib	Hyperinsulinism	1	0	0	0		Insulin resistance is an underlying mechanism of impaired glucose metabolism during nilotinib therapy.	
30054949	Imatinib Mesylate	Hyperinsulinism	1	0	0	0		Insulin resistance is an underlying mechanism of impaired glucose metabolism during nilotinib therapy.	
29858439	Oxcarbazepine	Thrombocytopenia	0	1	0	0		Lesson of the month 1: To stop a fit, but swinging low.	This is a case of an elderly woman who presented to our emergency room with an episode of a witnessed fall. The past medical history of the patient was significant for post-stroke epilepsy for which she was on oxcarbazepine. Initial blood work showed a white cell count of 4.5, haemoglobin of 12.4, and platelet count of 15,000. Peripheral blood smear showed normal platelet and red cell morphology without clumping. The patient's history suggested that she was recently started on oxcarbazepine prompting discontinuing of the drug. The platelet count improved from 15,000 cells/mL to 80,000 cells/mL on discharge.Antiepileptic medications have been reported to cause various blood dyscrasias in the literature. There are few studies that report the association of carbamazepine and thrombocytopenia and much fewer written about oxcarbazepine. Thrombocytopenia appears to be an uncommon reported side effect of oxcarbazepine; more commonly reported side effects include dizziness, tiredness, memory problems and headache. The treatment of antiepileptic drug-associated thrombocytopenia is discontinuing the medication and monitoring the platelet counts. In few cases, immunoglobulin infusion is required. Antiepileptic drug-associated thrombocytopenia is difficult to predict and so it is imperative to monitor the platelet level when antiepileptic drugs are started and even after the medication is switched to a different one.
29196616	Estradiol	Carcinoma, Ovarian Epithelial	1	1	0	0	0.0	17beta-Estradiol sensitizes ovarian surface epithelium to transformation by suppressing Disabled-2 expression.	Estrogen replacement therapy increases the risk of human ovarian cancer and exogenous estradiol accelerates the onset of ovarian cancer in mouse models. This study uses primary cultures of mouse ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) to demonstrate that one possible mechanism by which estrogen accelerates the initiation of ovarian cancer is by up-regulation of microRNA-378 via the ESR1 pathway to result in the down-regulation of a tumour suppressor called Disabled-2 (Dab2). Estrogen suppression of Dab2 was reproducible in vivo and across many cell types including mouse oviductal epithelium and primary cultures of human ovarian cancer cells. Suppression of Dab2 resulted in increased proliferation, loss of contact inhibition, morphological dysplasia, and resistance to oncogene-induced senescence - all factors that can sensitize OSE to transformation. Given that DAB2 is highly expressed in healthy human OSE and is absent in the majority of ovarian tumours, this study has taken the first steps to provide a mechanistic explanation for how estrogen therapy may play a role in the initiation of ovarian cancer.
29187286	Panitumumab	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Inflammation of Actinic Keratosis During Panitumumab Therapy.	
28631271	Omalizumab	Eye Diseases	1	0	0	0		Ocular myasthenic syndrome, adverse reaction to omalizumab? A case report.	
31189043	Nivolumab	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		Abatacept for Severe Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Associated Myocarditis.	
31189043	Nivolumab	Myositis	1	0	0	0		Abatacept for Severe Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Associated Myocarditis.	
31138520	Docetaxel	Anemia	0	0	0	0		[Toxicity of docetaxel, platine, 5-fluorouracil-based induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancer: The importance of nutritional status].	PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to identify predictive factors of toxicity of docetaxel, platin, 5-fluorouracil (TPF) induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancers. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From July 2009 to March 2015, 57 patients treated consecutively with TPF were included retrospectively. There were 47 males (83%), the median age was 56 years [40-71 years]. Thirty-eight patients (67%) were treated for inoperable cancer (highly symptomatic and/or high tumor burden) and 19 (33%) were treated for laryngeal preservation. There were 47% stage IVa, 32% stage III and 21% stage IVb. At diagnosis, there were 53% stable weight, 28% grade 1 weight loss, 17% grade 2 weight loss and 2% grade 3 weight loss. RESULTS: Forty-seven percent of patients were in partial response after TPF, 28% in complete response, 7% stable, 2% progressing and 2% discordant response. The possibility of oral feeding without a feeding tube was predictive of a better response (P=0.02). Thirty-nine percent of patients increased weight during TPF, 35% were stable, 18% in grade 1 weight loss, 6% in grade 2 and 2% in grade 3. Six of the patients (10.5%) died during chemotherapy: four from febrile neutropenia, one from pneumopathy and one of unknown cause. Age 57years and older was associated with a higher risk of grade>/=3 anemia and thrombocytopenia. There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 infection for weight loss at diagnosis (P=0.04) and feeding tube (P=0.05). There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 neutropenia for weight loss during TPF (P=0.03). CONCLUSION: Induction chemotherapy by TPF has an strong anti-tumor efficacy (75.5% objective response) but an important morbidity with 10% toxic deaths in our very symptomatic population with a very important tumor burden. Age and nutritional status are important factors to consider.
31138520	Docetaxel	Febrile Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		[Toxicity of docetaxel, platine, 5-fluorouracil-based induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancer: The importance of nutritional status].	PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to identify predictive factors of toxicity of docetaxel, platin, 5-fluorouracil (TPF) induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancers. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From July 2009 to March 2015, 57 patients treated consecutively with TPF were included retrospectively. There were 47 males (83%), the median age was 56 years [40-71 years]. Thirty-eight patients (67%) were treated for inoperable cancer (highly symptomatic and/or high tumor burden) and 19 (33%) were treated for laryngeal preservation. There were 47% stage IVa, 32% stage III and 21% stage IVb. At diagnosis, there were 53% stable weight, 28% grade 1 weight loss, 17% grade 2 weight loss and 2% grade 3 weight loss. RESULTS: Forty-seven percent of patients were in partial response after TPF, 28% in complete response, 7% stable, 2% progressing and 2% discordant response. The possibility of oral feeding without a feeding tube was predictive of a better response (P=0.02). Thirty-nine percent of patients increased weight during TPF, 35% were stable, 18% in grade 1 weight loss, 6% in grade 2 and 2% in grade 3. Six of the patients (10.5%) died during chemotherapy: four from febrile neutropenia, one from pneumopathy and one of unknown cause. Age 57years and older was associated with a higher risk of grade>/=3 anemia and thrombocytopenia. There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 infection for weight loss at diagnosis (P=0.04) and feeding tube (P=0.05). There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 neutropenia for weight loss during TPF (P=0.03). CONCLUSION: Induction chemotherapy by TPF has an strong anti-tumor efficacy (75.5% objective response) but an important morbidity with 10% toxic deaths in our very symptomatic population with a very important tumor burden. Age and nutritional status are important factors to consider.
31138520	Docetaxel	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		[Toxicity of docetaxel, platine, 5-fluorouracil-based induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancer: The importance of nutritional status].	PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to identify predictive factors of toxicity of docetaxel, platin, 5-fluorouracil (TPF) induction chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancers. PATIENTS AND METHODS: From July 2009 to March 2015, 57 patients treated consecutively with TPF were included retrospectively. There were 47 males (83%), the median age was 56 years [40-71 years]. Thirty-eight patients (67%) were treated for inoperable cancer (highly symptomatic and/or high tumor burden) and 19 (33%) were treated for laryngeal preservation. There were 47% stage IVa, 32% stage III and 21% stage IVb. At diagnosis, there were 53% stable weight, 28% grade 1 weight loss, 17% grade 2 weight loss and 2% grade 3 weight loss. RESULTS: Forty-seven percent of patients were in partial response after TPF, 28% in complete response, 7% stable, 2% progressing and 2% discordant response. The possibility of oral feeding without a feeding tube was predictive of a better response (P=0.02). Thirty-nine percent of patients increased weight during TPF, 35% were stable, 18% in grade 1 weight loss, 6% in grade 2 and 2% in grade 3. Six of the patients (10.5%) died during chemotherapy: four from febrile neutropenia, one from pneumopathy and one of unknown cause. Age 57years and older was associated with a higher risk of grade>/=3 anemia and thrombocytopenia. There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 infection for weight loss at diagnosis (P=0.04) and feeding tube (P=0.05). There was a higher risk of grade>/=3 neutropenia for weight loss during TPF (P=0.03). CONCLUSION: Induction chemotherapy by TPF has an strong anti-tumor efficacy (75.5% objective response) but an important morbidity with 10% toxic deaths in our very symptomatic population with a very important tumor burden. Age and nutritional status are important factors to consider.
30868494	Methylprednisolone	Osteoarthritis	0	1	0	0		Decrease of GSK3beta Ser-9 Phosphorylation Induced Osteoblast Apoptosis in Rat Osteoarthritis Model.	Nowadays, the cumulative intake of glucocorticoids has become the most common pathogenic factor for non-traumatic osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH). Apoptosis of osteoblasts is considered as the main reason of ONFH at the molecular level. Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) is an important regulator of cellular differentiation and apoptosis pathway, which can modulate the balance between osteoblasts and osteoclasts. Several studies have reported about its function in osteoporosis, but little is known about it in osteonecrosis. In our study, lipopolysaccharide and methylprednisolone were utilized to establish a rat ONFH model. The phosphorylation of GSK3beta Ser-9 was decreased in the model. Western blotting examination of beta-catenin, Bcl-2, Bax and caspase-3 revealed that the osteoblasts were apoptotic. In dexamethasone (Dex)-incubated primary osteoblasts, the expression profile of GSK3beta phosphorylation and apoptotic factors were consistent with those in the rat ONFH model. To further investigate the regulation of osteonecrosis caused by GSK3beta, the expression and function of GSK3beta were inhibited in Dex-incubated primary osteoblasts. The knockdown of GSK3beta by siRNA decreased the expression of Bax and cleaved caspase-3, but increased Bcl-2 and beta-catenin. On the other hand, selective inhibition of GSK3beta function by LiCl counteracted the activation of caspase-3 induced by Dex. Our work is the first study about the GSK3beta phosphorylation in ONFH, and provides evidence for further therapeutic methods.
30766593	Remifentanil	Hypotension	0	0	0	0		A comparison of risk of hypotension using standard doses of remifentanil versus dexmedetomidine infusions in adult patients undergoing surgery under general anaesthesia at the Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi.	BACKGROUND: Remifentanil and dexmedetomidine are common agents used in general anaesthesia, monitored anaesthesia care and critical care. When combined with inhaled or intravenous anaesthetic agents intra-operatively, they provide analgesia, lower general anaesthetic requirements and provide sedation and analgesia in the peri-operative period if indicated. Pharmacodynamically, they cause hypotension and bradycardia which are reversible if well managed. Past studies of these drugs have shown a significant proportion of patients with hypotension when compared with similar agents or in isolation. This study compares these two drugs on the effect of hypotension when used as adjuncts to general anaesthesia at low dose standard rate of infusions. OBJECTIVE: To compare the proportion of hypotension episodes in a group of adult patients receiving dexmedetomidine infusion at 0.4mcg/kg/hr versus a group receiving remifentanil infusion at 0.2mcg/kg/min, severity of hypotension and physician interventions in each group. METHODS: One hundred and four patients scheduled for elective surgery under general anaesthesia were randomized into two groups: Control group; received remifentanil infusion at 0.2mcg/kg/minIntervention group; received dexmedetomidine at 0.4mcg/kg/hr.General anaesthesia was standardized in both groups. The patients were blinded to the study. Baseline blood pressures of all patients were determined prior to induction. The patient's demographic characteristics were recorded. The number of patients who developed hypotension, the frequency of hypotension and the physician interventions were recorded and analysed. RESULTS: The age and gender characteristics were different between the two groups (p values <0.023 and 0.05 respectively) however they did not affect the proportion of patients with hypotension. The weight, baseline pressures and ASA status of the patients within the groups were similar. The operative procedures varied within the groups. General surgery did not influence the outcome of hypotension in both arms. The duration of surgery in remifentanil group exceeded that of Dexmedetomidine p value<0.0005 however the time to the first episode of hypotension was similar between the groups. The episodes of hypotension were fewer in the dexmedetomidine arm and the proportion of patients with hypotension were higher in the remifentanil arm, p value<0.001, R.R 0. = 0.5938, 95% C.I= 0.329-0.819 The physician interventions administered were similar between the two groups except the use of ephedrine between the groups. CONCLUSION: Among this population, at standard infusion rates, the proportion of patients that risk hypotension was greater in those undergoing elective surgery receiving remifentanil at 0.2mcg/kg/min than in dexmedetomidine at 0.4mcg/kg/hr under isoflurane based anaesthesia.
30672576	Linoleic Acid	Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental	0	0	0	0		A high linoleic acid diet exacerbates metabolic responses and gut microbiota dysbiosis in obese rats with diabetes mellitus.	Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) levels may affect inflammatory responses and lipid metabolism. Gut microbiota diversity is strongly associated with chronic inflammatory disease, diabetes mellitus (DM), and obesity through abnormal energy homeostasis. In this study, the association between metabolic responses and gut microbiota diversity at different dietary n-6/n-3 PUFA ratios was evaluated in DM rats. Obesity and DM were induced in rats by using a high-fat diet and streptozotocin (STZ), respectively. The obese DM rats were assigned to three groups and administered regular (R), high (H), and low (L) n-6/n-3 ratio diets (n-6/n-3 = 6.39, 3.02, and 9.29, respectively) for 6 weeks. Some metabolic parameters and gut microbiota of the rats were analysed. The results revealed that a high linoleic acid diet increased the plasma and kidney interleukin 6 levels, whereas a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet ameliorated blood glucose homeostasis, reduced plasma tumour necrosis factor alpha levels, and inhibited systematic inflammation. DM rats exhibited low gut microbiota diversity; however, compared with the R group, the L and H groups did not exhibit alterations in the alpha-diversity (Observed, Chao 1, Shannon and Simpson). The percentage of Firmicutes was lower in the DM groups than in the non-DM group; however, the L group showed a nonsignificantly higher Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio than did the other groups. Thus, a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet can improve blood glucose homeostasis, reduce systematic inflammation, ameliorate glomerular basal membrane thickening, reduce the expression of receptors of advanced glycation end products in renal vessel walls, and prevent diabetic nephropathies.
30672576	Linoleic Acid	Obesity	0	0	0	0		A high linoleic acid diet exacerbates metabolic responses and gut microbiota dysbiosis in obese rats with diabetes mellitus.	Dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) levels may affect inflammatory responses and lipid metabolism. Gut microbiota diversity is strongly associated with chronic inflammatory disease, diabetes mellitus (DM), and obesity through abnormal energy homeostasis. In this study, the association between metabolic responses and gut microbiota diversity at different dietary n-6/n-3 PUFA ratios was evaluated in DM rats. Obesity and DM were induced in rats by using a high-fat diet and streptozotocin (STZ), respectively. The obese DM rats were assigned to three groups and administered regular (R), high (H), and low (L) n-6/n-3 ratio diets (n-6/n-3 = 6.39, 3.02, and 9.29, respectively) for 6 weeks. Some metabolic parameters and gut microbiota of the rats were analysed. The results revealed that a high linoleic acid diet increased the plasma and kidney interleukin 6 levels, whereas a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet ameliorated blood glucose homeostasis, reduced plasma tumour necrosis factor alpha levels, and inhibited systematic inflammation. DM rats exhibited low gut microbiota diversity; however, compared with the R group, the L and H groups did not exhibit alterations in the alpha-diversity (Observed, Chao 1, Shannon and Simpson). The percentage of Firmicutes was lower in the DM groups than in the non-DM group; however, the L group showed a nonsignificantly higher Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio than did the other groups. Thus, a low n-6/n-3 ratio diet can improve blood glucose homeostasis, reduce systematic inflammation, ameliorate glomerular basal membrane thickening, reduce the expression of receptors of advanced glycation end products in renal vessel walls, and prevent diabetic nephropathies.
30280426	Vemurafenib	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell	1	1	0	0	0.0	Systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.	BACKGROUND: Vemurafenib has been linked to dermatological adverse events in patients with melanoma, including an increased risk of rash, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, photosensitivity reaction and keratoacanthoma. However, there has been no systematic attempt to assess the dermatological toxicity data of vemurafenib associated with melanoma treatment. AIM: To evaluate the point prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma. METHODS: Searches were conducted of the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE and of conference abstracts published by the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Eligible studies included prospective clinical trials and expanded-access programmes (i.e. outside a clinical trial) of patients with melanoma assigned to vemurafenib treatment. Outcomes included prevalence of dermatological toxicities treated with vemurafenib. Statistical analyses were performed using the R2.8.1 meta package. RESULTS: In total, 11 studies comprising 4197 patients were included in the meta-analysis. For patients assigned to vemurafenib, the overall prevalence of all-grade cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) was 18.00% (95% CI 12.00-26.00%), rash 45.00% (95% CI 34.00-57.00%), photosensitivity reaction (PR) 30.00% (95% CI 23.00-38.00%), keratoacanthoma (KA) 10.00% (95% CI 6.00-15.00%) and hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) 9.00% (95% CI 4.00-20.00%), while the prevalence of high-grade events was: cSCC 16.00% (95% CI 11.00-23.00%), rash 12.00% (95% CI 3.00-38.00%), PR 4% (95% CI 2.00-8.00%) and KA 6.00% (95% CI 5.00-7.00%). CONCLUSION: The most frequent dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma were cSCC, rash, PR and KA. These data may be useful for estimation of the efficacy and safety of the drug during clinical treatment and for reducing the prevalence of adverse reactions to vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.
30280426	Vemurafenib	Exanthema	1	1	0	0	0.0	Systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.	BACKGROUND: Vemurafenib has been linked to dermatological adverse events in patients with melanoma, including an increased risk of rash, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, photosensitivity reaction and keratoacanthoma. However, there has been no systematic attempt to assess the dermatological toxicity data of vemurafenib associated with melanoma treatment. AIM: To evaluate the point prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma. METHODS: Searches were conducted of the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE and of conference abstracts published by the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Eligible studies included prospective clinical trials and expanded-access programmes (i.e. outside a clinical trial) of patients with melanoma assigned to vemurafenib treatment. Outcomes included prevalence of dermatological toxicities treated with vemurafenib. Statistical analyses were performed using the R2.8.1 meta package. RESULTS: In total, 11 studies comprising 4197 patients were included in the meta-analysis. For patients assigned to vemurafenib, the overall prevalence of all-grade cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) was 18.00% (95% CI 12.00-26.00%), rash 45.00% (95% CI 34.00-57.00%), photosensitivity reaction (PR) 30.00% (95% CI 23.00-38.00%), keratoacanthoma (KA) 10.00% (95% CI 6.00-15.00%) and hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) 9.00% (95% CI 4.00-20.00%), while the prevalence of high-grade events was: cSCC 16.00% (95% CI 11.00-23.00%), rash 12.00% (95% CI 3.00-38.00%), PR 4% (95% CI 2.00-8.00%) and KA 6.00% (95% CI 5.00-7.00%). CONCLUSION: The most frequent dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma were cSCC, rash, PR and KA. These data may be useful for estimation of the efficacy and safety of the drug during clinical treatment and for reducing the prevalence of adverse reactions to vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.
30280426	Vemurafenib	Keratoacanthoma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.	BACKGROUND: Vemurafenib has been linked to dermatological adverse events in patients with melanoma, including an increased risk of rash, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, photosensitivity reaction and keratoacanthoma. However, there has been no systematic attempt to assess the dermatological toxicity data of vemurafenib associated with melanoma treatment. AIM: To evaluate the point prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma. METHODS: Searches were conducted of the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE and of conference abstracts published by the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Eligible studies included prospective clinical trials and expanded-access programmes (i.e. outside a clinical trial) of patients with melanoma assigned to vemurafenib treatment. Outcomes included prevalence of dermatological toxicities treated with vemurafenib. Statistical analyses were performed using the R2.8.1 meta package. RESULTS: In total, 11 studies comprising 4197 patients were included in the meta-analysis. For patients assigned to vemurafenib, the overall prevalence of all-grade cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) was 18.00% (95% CI 12.00-26.00%), rash 45.00% (95% CI 34.00-57.00%), photosensitivity reaction (PR) 30.00% (95% CI 23.00-38.00%), keratoacanthoma (KA) 10.00% (95% CI 6.00-15.00%) and hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) 9.00% (95% CI 4.00-20.00%), while the prevalence of high-grade events was: cSCC 16.00% (95% CI 11.00-23.00%), rash 12.00% (95% CI 3.00-38.00%), PR 4% (95% CI 2.00-8.00%) and KA 6.00% (95% CI 5.00-7.00%). CONCLUSION: The most frequent dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma were cSCC, rash, PR and KA. These data may be useful for estimation of the efficacy and safety of the drug during clinical treatment and for reducing the prevalence of adverse reactions to vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.
30280426	Vemurafenib	Skin Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Systematic review and meta-analysis of prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.	BACKGROUND: Vemurafenib has been linked to dermatological adverse events in patients with melanoma, including an increased risk of rash, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, photosensitivity reaction and keratoacanthoma. However, there has been no systematic attempt to assess the dermatological toxicity data of vemurafenib associated with melanoma treatment. AIM: To evaluate the point prevalence of dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma. METHODS: Searches were conducted of the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE and of conference abstracts published by the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Eligible studies included prospective clinical trials and expanded-access programmes (i.e. outside a clinical trial) of patients with melanoma assigned to vemurafenib treatment. Outcomes included prevalence of dermatological toxicities treated with vemurafenib. Statistical analyses were performed using the R2.8.1 meta package. RESULTS: In total, 11 studies comprising 4197 patients were included in the meta-analysis. For patients assigned to vemurafenib, the overall prevalence of all-grade cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) was 18.00% (95% CI 12.00-26.00%), rash 45.00% (95% CI 34.00-57.00%), photosensitivity reaction (PR) 30.00% (95% CI 23.00-38.00%), keratoacanthoma (KA) 10.00% (95% CI 6.00-15.00%) and hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) 9.00% (95% CI 4.00-20.00%), while the prevalence of high-grade events was: cSCC 16.00% (95% CI 11.00-23.00%), rash 12.00% (95% CI 3.00-38.00%), PR 4% (95% CI 2.00-8.00%) and KA 6.00% (95% CI 5.00-7.00%). CONCLUSION: The most frequent dermatological toxicities associated with vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma were cSCC, rash, PR and KA. These data may be useful for estimation of the efficacy and safety of the drug during clinical treatment and for reducing the prevalence of adverse reactions to vemurafenib treatment in patients with melanoma.
30272380	Docosahexaenoic Acids	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Docosahexaenoic acid attenuates inflammation-induced hyperexcitability of trigeminal spinal nucleus caudalis neurons associated with hyperalgesia in rats.	The present study investigated whether daily systemic administration of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in rats could attenuate the hyperexcitability of trigeminal spinal nucleus caudalis (SpVc) neurons associated with hyperalgesia. Inflammation was induced in rats by injecting complete Freund's adjuvant into the whisker pads. The threshold of escape from mechanical stimulation applied to the whisker pads in inflamed rats was significantly lower than that in naive rats. The lowered mechanical threshold in the inflamed rats was returned to that in naive rats by 3 d intraperitoneal administration of DHA. The mean discharge frequency of SpVc neurons in inflamed rats was significantly decreased after DHA administration for 3 d with both non-noxious and noxious mechanical stimuli. DHA administration also significantly decreased the increased spontaneous discharges of SpVc neurons in the inflamed rats, while DHA significantly diminished noxious pinch evoked after the discharge frequency and the expanded receptive field in the inflamed rats was returned to control levels. These results suggested that chronic administration of DHA attenuates inflammation-induced mechanical hyperalgesia associated with the suppression of the hyperexcitability of SpVc neurons. These findings support the potential use of DHA as a therapeutic agent in complementary alternative medicine for mitigating trigeminal inflammatory hyperalgesia.
30139674	Carbamide Peroxide	Tooth Discoloration	0	0	0	0		Effect of carbamide peroxide bleaching on enamel characteristics and susceptibility to further discoloration.	STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Whether tooth whitening alters the surface topography of enamel causing an increase in surface roughness that could increase susceptibility to restaining is unclear. PURPOSE: The purpose of this in vitro study was to evaluate whether immersing enamel in common solutions produces a color change of DeltaE greater than 2; whether the highest concentration carbamide peroxide bleaching agent produces the greatest DeltaE; whether bleaching increases the susceptibility to further staining by common solutions; and whether morphologic changes to the enamel surface are observed after staining and bleaching as evidenced by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS). MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-five extracted human teeth were immersed in 5 solutions (wine, coffee, tea, soda, and water) for 15 days at 80 degrees C, and the change in DeltaE was assessed with a colorimeter. The teeth were bleached using different concentrations of carbamide peroxide (20%, 35%, and 44%) and DeltaE was measured at different time intervals. The teeth were then restained with the same solutions. The DeltaE after initial staining was compared with the DeltaE after bleaching and restaining of the same teeth. SEM was performed at baseline, after staining, bleaching, and restaining to evaluate the changes in the enamel surface topography. EDS was used to determine the elemental composition of tooth surfaces after restaining. RESULTS: All liquids caused a DeltaE greater than 2 after 15 days. The concentration of bleaching agent was not significantly associated with DeltaE for any stain types. No significant difference was found in the rate of staining between initial staining and restaining after bleaching. However, a significant effect of time was found for the staining, where the overall DeltaE increased by 0.34 for each day in the solution (P<.001). SEM images showed no major changes to enamel topography after bleaching. However, a coating was noted on teeth stained with wine and tea, which had different elemental compositions when compared with the tooth surface. CONCLUSIONS: Based on SEM observation, bleaching teeth with carbamide peroxide does not increase the susceptibility of enamel to staining and does not alter the topography of the enamel. Using higher bleaching concentrations did not increase tooth whitening as a function of time.
28916767	Paclitaxel	Cognitive Dysfunction	1	1	0	0	0.0	The cancer chemotherapeutic agent paclitaxel (Taxol) reduces hippocampal neurogenesis via down-regulation of vesicular zinc.	Chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment (CICI) is increasingly recognized as a major unwanted side effect of an otherwise highly valuable life-saving technology. In part, this awareness is a result of increased cancer survival rates following chemotherapy. Altered hippocampal neurogenesis may play a role in mediating CICI. In particular, zinc could act as a key regulator of this process. To test this hypothesis, we administered paclitaxel (Px) to male C57BL/6 mice for set time periods and then evaluated the effects of Px treatment on hippocampal neurogenesis and vesicular zinc. We found that vesicular zinc levels and expression of zinc transporter 3 (ZnT3) were reduced in Px-treated mice, compared to vehicle-treated mice. Moreover, Px-treated mice demonstrated a significant decrease in the number of neuroblasts present. However, no difference in the number of progenitor cells were observed. In addition, zinc supplementation by treatment with ZnCl(2) ameliorated the Px-induced decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis and cognitive impairment. These results suggest that via disruption of vesicular zinc stores in hippocampal mossy fiber terminals, chemotherapy may impinge upon one or more of the sequential stages involved in the maturation of new neurons derived via adult neurogenesis and thereby leads to the progressive cognitive decline associated with CICI.
28478548	Biotin	Goiter	1	0	0	0		Apparent biochemical thyrotoxicosis due to assay interference by high-dose biotin given for multiple sclerosis.	
28478548	Vitamin B Complex	Goiter	1	0	0	0		Apparent biochemical thyrotoxicosis due to assay interference by high-dose biotin given for multiple sclerosis.	
28478548	Vitamin B Complex	Thyrotoxicosis	1	0	0	0		Apparent biochemical thyrotoxicosis due to assay interference by high-dose biotin given for multiple sclerosis.	
28426905	Vemurafenib	Acantholysis	1	0	0	0		Acantholytic dyskeratotic acanthoma: a possible skin adverse event of vemurafenib treatment.	
28166916	Linezolid	Tongue, Hairy	1	1	0	1	1.0	Black brown discoloration and hairy tongue - A rare linezolid side effect.	INTRODUCTION: Linezolid was approved for clinical use for methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-resistant Enterococci. Additionally it is used in the management of drug resistant tuberculosis. It is well-tolerated however bone marrow suppression and neuropathies may occur in patients taking this antibiotic for more than 2 weeks. Black discoloration and black hairy tongue (BHT) due to linezolid is rarely reported. We report two cases of BHT. CASE REPORTS: Two patients of drug resistant pulmonary tuberculosis developed benign hairy tongue with linezolid 600mg per day. In both the cases black colored/hairy tongue was reported within 2-3 weeks of linezolid treatment. Both patients improved after withdrawal of linezolid. Subsequent reintroduction of linezolid with good oral hygiene was well tolerated and both patients completed the treatment of 2 years duration without any recurrence. CONCLUSION: Black discoloration and BHT is a rare but transient adverse reaction with linezolid. Reintroduction of linezolid with good oral hygiene is well tolerated.
31097186	Fondaparinux	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Editor's Choice - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Efficacy and Safety of Anticoagulation in the Treatment of Venous Thromboembolism in Patients with Cancer.	OBJECTIVE/BACKGROUND: The aim was to review the relative efficacy and safety of anticoagulation for managing venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients with cancer. METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis was carried out. On 17 May 2018 the MEDLINE and Scopus databases were searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). Eligible RCTs had to be performed in patients with cancer exclusively or to report results on a subset of patients with cancer. The main study outcomes (efficacy/recurrent VTE and safety/bleeding events) were expressed as risk ratios (RR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI). The quality of evidence was assessed following the GRADE method. RESULTS: Twenty-three RCTs with 6980 patients were identified. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) were more effective than vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) in preventing recurrent VTE (RR 0.58, 95% CI 0.45-0.75) and deep vein thrombosis (RR 0.44, 95% CI 0.29-0.69) but not pulmonary embolism (PE), bleeding, or overall mortality. Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) were more effective than VKAs in preventing recurrent VTE (RR 0.65, 95% CI 0.45-0.95) but not DVT, PE, overall mortality, or bleeding. However, anti-Xa DOACs were more effective (RR for VTE 0.64, 95% CI 0.42-0.97) and caused less bleeding than VKAs, although major bleeding was reduced only with DOACs not requiring initial parenteral anticoagulation (RR 0.45, 95% CI 0.21-0.97). In a direct comparison, DOACs were more effective than LMWHs in preventing VTE recurrence (RR 0.64, 95% CI 0.45-0.90) but caused more major bleeding (RR 1.75, 95% CI 1.10-2.77), with no difference in fatal bleeding and overall mortality. Quality of evidence, where sufficient, was mostly moderate or high. CONCLUSION: Compared with VKAs, LMWHs and DOACs are more effective in treating VTE, but the former caused less bleeding. DOACs are more effective than LMWHs in preventing VTE recurrence but may carry a higher risk of major bleeding, pending additional information by ongoing trials.
30820903	Metronidazole	Multiple Sclerosis	0	0	0	0		Conditional Demyelination and Remyelination in a Transgenic Xenopus laevis.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the first cause of acquired disability progression in the young adult. Pathology of MS associates inflammation, demyelination, and neurodegeneration. The development of immunotherapies, by reducing the relapse rate, has profoundly impacted short-term prognosis and patients' quality of life. These anti-inflammatory medications, however, have not proven to be sufficient to prevent long-term disability progression, resulting from axonal transection and neuronal damage, consequences of prolonged demyelination. Promoting remyelination is therefore a key therapeutic strategy to limit handicap progression, and represent the major therapeutic challenge in MS. Here we present a simple, rapid, and cost-effective experimental model developed in Xenopus laevis to screen in vivo molecules promoting remyelination.
29896926	Nivolumab	Eczema	1	0	0	0		Eczematous reactions mimicking psoriasiform dermatitis induced by nivolumab for advanced lung cancer.	
30072188	Mitomycin	Corneal Injuries	1	1	0	0	0.0	Resolution of conjunctival melanoma with topical interferon alpha 2b in a patient with mitomycin C intolerance.	OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical and histological resolution of a case of an inexcisable conjunctival melanoma using topical interferon alpha 2b (INFalpha2b) in a patient with mitomycin C (MMC) intolerance. CASE REPORT: Conjunctival melanoma is a rare, but potentially sight- and life-threatening, tumour. In cases of multiple lesions, or when surgical excision is not possible, topical combination chemotherapy with MMC and INFalpha2b has been described as first line therapy. The case is presented of a 77 year-old woman with a multifocal conjunctival in situ melanoma, who was intolerant to initial treatment with MMC and was switched to long-term INFalpha2b therapy, with a good outcome. CONCLUSIONS: When topical MMC is given as chemotherapy treatment for primary acquired melanosis with atypia or in situ melanoma is not well tolerated, switching to INFalpha2b seems to be a good option. This approach could replace surgical management of pigmented tumours, especially the larger ones, with potential benefits that include less dependence on surgical margins. This report prompts a need for prospective studies designed to examine the role of INFalpha2b as primary treatment for heavily pigmented conjunctival tumours avoiding the ocular surface toxicity caused by MMC.
30003323	Cyclosporine	Carcinoma, Renal Cell	0	1	0	0		Renal cell cancer after kidney transplantation.	PURPOSE: This study aims to identify modifiable risk factors for de novo renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after kidney transplantation in a matched-pair approach matching for unmodifiable factors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One thousand six hundred fifty-five adults who underwent kidney transplantation in the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2012 were analyzed. Patients with RCC after kidney transplantation were matched in a 1:2 ratio with those without RCC using the indication for transplantation, age at transplantation (+/- 10 years), recipient sex (male/female), number of received transplants, living organ donor transplantation (yes/no), and time of follow-up in days as matching criteria. The paired t test was used to compare continuous variables and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for categorical variables. Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling was used to identify independent risk factors for RCC. RESULTS: In matched-pair analysis, a total number of 26 incident cases with RCC after kidney transplantation could be matched. Post-transplant RCC was significantly associated with longer durations of pre-transplant hemodialysis (p = 0.007) and post-transplant immunosuppression with cyclosporine (p = 0.029) and/or mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.020) and with larger proportions of post-transplant time on mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.046) and/or prednisolone medication (p = 0.042). Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling revealed a significant risk increasing multiplicative factor interaction between the duration of pre-transplant dialysis (years) and the time of prednisolone usage (percent/100). Cyclosporine A usage and mycophenolate mofetil usage were also revealed as independent, significant risk factors for RCC development. CONCLUSIONS: Longer pre-transplant dialysis, cyclosporine-based protocols and/or intensified immunosuppression with additional mycophenolate mofetil, and larger proportions of time of prednisolone treatment during follow-up increase de novo RCC risk.
30003323	Mycophenolic Acid	Carcinoma, Renal Cell	0	1	0	0		Renal cell cancer after kidney transplantation.	PURPOSE: This study aims to identify modifiable risk factors for de novo renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after kidney transplantation in a matched-pair approach matching for unmodifiable factors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One thousand six hundred fifty-five adults who underwent kidney transplantation in the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2012 were analyzed. Patients with RCC after kidney transplantation were matched in a 1:2 ratio with those without RCC using the indication for transplantation, age at transplantation (+/- 10 years), recipient sex (male/female), number of received transplants, living organ donor transplantation (yes/no), and time of follow-up in days as matching criteria. The paired t test was used to compare continuous variables and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for categorical variables. Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling was used to identify independent risk factors for RCC. RESULTS: In matched-pair analysis, a total number of 26 incident cases with RCC after kidney transplantation could be matched. Post-transplant RCC was significantly associated with longer durations of pre-transplant hemodialysis (p = 0.007) and post-transplant immunosuppression with cyclosporine (p = 0.029) and/or mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.020) and with larger proportions of post-transplant time on mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.046) and/or prednisolone medication (p = 0.042). Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling revealed a significant risk increasing multiplicative factor interaction between the duration of pre-transplant dialysis (years) and the time of prednisolone usage (percent/100). Cyclosporine A usage and mycophenolate mofetil usage were also revealed as independent, significant risk factors for RCC development. CONCLUSIONS: Longer pre-transplant dialysis, cyclosporine-based protocols and/or intensified immunosuppression with additional mycophenolate mofetil, and larger proportions of time of prednisolone treatment during follow-up increase de novo RCC risk.
30003323	Mycophenolic Acid	Kidney Neoplasms	0	1	0	0		Renal cell cancer after kidney transplantation.	PURPOSE: This study aims to identify modifiable risk factors for de novo renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after kidney transplantation in a matched-pair approach matching for unmodifiable factors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One thousand six hundred fifty-five adults who underwent kidney transplantation in the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2012 were analyzed. Patients with RCC after kidney transplantation were matched in a 1:2 ratio with those without RCC using the indication for transplantation, age at transplantation (+/- 10 years), recipient sex (male/female), number of received transplants, living organ donor transplantation (yes/no), and time of follow-up in days as matching criteria. The paired t test was used to compare continuous variables and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for categorical variables. Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling was used to identify independent risk factors for RCC. RESULTS: In matched-pair analysis, a total number of 26 incident cases with RCC after kidney transplantation could be matched. Post-transplant RCC was significantly associated with longer durations of pre-transplant hemodialysis (p = 0.007) and post-transplant immunosuppression with cyclosporine (p = 0.029) and/or mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.020) and with larger proportions of post-transplant time on mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.046) and/or prednisolone medication (p = 0.042). Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling revealed a significant risk increasing multiplicative factor interaction between the duration of pre-transplant dialysis (years) and the time of prednisolone usage (percent/100). Cyclosporine A usage and mycophenolate mofetil usage were also revealed as independent, significant risk factors for RCC development. CONCLUSIONS: Longer pre-transplant dialysis, cyclosporine-based protocols and/or intensified immunosuppression with additional mycophenolate mofetil, and larger proportions of time of prednisolone treatment during follow-up increase de novo RCC risk.
30003323	Prednisolone	Carcinoma, Renal Cell	0	1	0	0		Renal cell cancer after kidney transplantation.	PURPOSE: This study aims to identify modifiable risk factors for de novo renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after kidney transplantation in a matched-pair approach matching for unmodifiable factors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: One thousand six hundred fifty-five adults who underwent kidney transplantation in the period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2012 were analyzed. Patients with RCC after kidney transplantation were matched in a 1:2 ratio with those without RCC using the indication for transplantation, age at transplantation (+/- 10 years), recipient sex (male/female), number of received transplants, living organ donor transplantation (yes/no), and time of follow-up in days as matching criteria. The paired t test was used to compare continuous variables and the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for categorical variables. Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling was used to identify independent risk factors for RCC. RESULTS: In matched-pair analysis, a total number of 26 incident cases with RCC after kidney transplantation could be matched. Post-transplant RCC was significantly associated with longer durations of pre-transplant hemodialysis (p = 0.007) and post-transplant immunosuppression with cyclosporine (p = 0.029) and/or mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.020) and with larger proportions of post-transplant time on mycophenolate mofetil (p = 0.046) and/or prednisolone medication (p = 0.042). Multivariable conditional logistic regression modeling revealed a significant risk increasing multiplicative factor interaction between the duration of pre-transplant dialysis (years) and the time of prednisolone usage (percent/100). Cyclosporine A usage and mycophenolate mofetil usage were also revealed as independent, significant risk factors for RCC development. CONCLUSIONS: Longer pre-transplant dialysis, cyclosporine-based protocols and/or intensified immunosuppression with additional mycophenolate mofetil, and larger proportions of time of prednisolone treatment during follow-up increase de novo RCC risk.
29415534	Interferon alpha-2	Thyroid Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Long-term outcomes of thyroid dysfunction in patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin.	INTRODUCTION: Thyroid dysfunctions (TDs) are associated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin (PegIFN-alpha/RBV) therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and are considered as possible extrahepatic manifestation of HCV infection OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to assess the long-term outcomes of TDs in patients with CHC treated with PegIFN-alpha/RBV METHODS: A total of 1,047 treatment-naive patients with CHC were treated with PegIFN-alpha/RBV. TSH and FT4 were assessed at baseline, every 3 months during therapy and 6, 12 and 24 months after the end of therapy. Analysis was performed for two groups of patients depending on the absence (group A, n=77) or presence (group B, n=39) of TDs at baseline RESULTS: At baseline, TDs' prevalence was 3.7%; 53.8% hypothyroidism, 38.5% goiters, and 7.7% hyperthyroidism. 77 (7.4%) out of 1,008 euthyroid patients developed TDs; 45.5% hypothyroidism, 33.8% hyperthyroidism, 19.5% destructive thyroiditis, and 1.3% goiters. TDs' remission (TDR) was achieved in 59/116 (50.9%) of treated patients; 64.9% in group A and 23.1% in group B (p<0.001). Hyperthyroidism as compared to hypothyroidism increases the odds of TDR (OR=4.87 (1.65-14.35), p=0.004), whereas preexisting TDs and higher baseline viral load tend to decrease the probability of TDR (OR=0.21 (0.07-0.58), p=0.003 and OR=0.4 (0.22-0.73), p=0.003, respectively) CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of TDs was low but over one-third of patients in whom TDs developed under PegIFN-alpha/RBV therapy did not recover. In one-fourth of patients with preexisting TDs remissions were observed. Treatment with PegIFN-alpha in the past must be taken into account as a potential cause of TDs
29127344	Parathyroid Hormone	Hyperparathyroidism	0	1	0	0		Catabolic Effects of Human PTH (1-34) on Bone: Requirement of Monocyte Chemoattractant Protein-1 in Murine Model of Hyperparathyroidism.	The bone catabolic actions of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are seen in patients with hyperparathyroidism, or with infusion of PTH in rodents. We have previously shown that the chemokine, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), is a mediator of PTH's anabolic effects on bone. To determine its role in PTH's catabolic effects, we continuously infused female wild-type (WT) and MCP-1(-/-) mice with hPTH or vehicle. Microcomputed tomography (microCT) analysis of cortical bone showed that hPTH-infusion induced significant bone loss in WT mice. Further, muCT analysis of trabecular bone revealed that, compared with the vehicle-treated group, the PTH-treated WT mice had reduced trabecular thickness and trabecular number. Notably, MCP-1(-/-) mice were protected against PTH-induced cortical and trabecular bone loss as well as from increases in serum CTX (C-terminal crosslinking telopeptide of type I collagen) and TRACP-5b (tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b). In vitro, bone marrow macrophages (BMMs) from MCP-1(-/-) and WT mice were cultured with M-CSF, RANKL and/or MCP-1. BMMs from MCP-1(-/-) mice showed decreased multinucleated osteoclast formation compared with WT mice. Taken together, our work demonstrates that MCP-1 has a role in PTH's catabolic effects on bone including monocyte and macrophage recruitment, osteoclast formation, bone resorption, and cortical and trabecular bone loss.
29126352	Nivolumab	Rhabdomyolysis	1	1	0	1	0.0	Fatal myocarditis and rhabdomyolysis induced by nivolumab during the treatment of type B3 thymoma.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors including programmed death-1 inhibitors are promising agents for many types of malignancies; however, it is still an off-label choice for type B3 thymoma. We reported for the first time a patient with type B3 thymoma developed fatal myocarditis and rhabdomyolysis after one dose of nivolumab administration. The results from myocardial and muscle biopsies revealed extensive myocyte damage, T-lymphocytic infiltration and strongly expression of PD-L1 which confirmed the nivolumab-related immune-related adverse events (irAEs). The blood tests showed elevated levels of serum AChR-binding antibody and inflammatory cytokines, in addition abnormal lymphocyte subsets were noted. Our report suggested that administration of nivolumab in type B3 thymoma could cause rare but fatal myocarditis and rhabdomyolysis, over-expressed AChR-binding antibody and inflammatory cytokines may be potential biomarkers for irAEs.
28969436	Hydroxocobalamin	Methemoglobinemia	1	1	0	1	1.0	Acquired methemoglobinemia after hydroxocobalamin administration in a patient with burns and inhalation injury.	CONTEXT: Hydroxocobalamin is an effective cyanide antidote. While erythema, hypertension, and chromaturia are recognized side effects, methemoglobinemia has not been reported. Methemoglobin levels are most accurately measured by co-oximetry. We describe an extensively burned patient who developed methemoglobinemia within an hour of hydroxocobalamin administration. CASE DETAILS: A 47-year old man without genetic deficiencies or abnormal hemoglobin variants presented with 61% body surface area thermal burns and grade 1 inhalation injury sustained during a tugboat engine explosion. On admission, lactate was 9.24 mmol/L, methemoglobin 1%, and carboxyhemoglobin 0.2% by blood gas analysis with co-oximetry. Despite large-volume resuscitation, lactate remained elevated (7-8 mmol/L). Intravenous hydroxocobalamin (5 g) was administered at postburn hour 19 for possible cyanide toxicity. Immediately thereafter, he became hypertensive with reflex bradycardia. Lactate decreased to 5.51 mmol/L, methemoglobin rose to 4.10%, and oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry decreased to 74-80% (despite arterial oxygen saturation of 95% by cooximetry). Methemoglobin concentration peaked at 13.40% at postburn hour 33. Methylene blue was not administered. CONCLUSIONS: Methemoglobinemia in our patient was temporally associated with hydroxocobalamin administration.
27889369	Alemtuzumab	Hypertension, Pulmonary	1	0	0	0		Alemtuzumab and de novo pulmonary arterial hypertension: A potential association?	
30854755	Risperidone	Tardive Dyskinesia	1	0	0	0		Case of risperidone-induced tardive parkinsonism.	
30821018	Lamotrigine	Acneiform Eruptions	1	0	0	0		Case of drug eruption during treatment with lithium and lamotrigine implicating a possible role of additives in the lithium tablet.	
30498266	Alemtuzumab	Graves Ophthalmopathy	1	1	0	1	0.0	Immune reconstitution after alemtuzumab therapy for multiple sclerosis triggering Graves' orbitopathy: a case series.	Alemtuzumab-a monoclonal antibody targeting the CD52 glycoprotein expressed by most mature leucocytes-effectively decreases relapse rate and disability progression in early, relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). However, secondary autoimmune disorders complicate therapy in nearly 50% of treated patients, with Graves' disease being the most common. Rarely, thyroid eye disease (TED) ensues; only seven such cases have been reported. Our aim was to analyse the largest series of MS patients developing thyroid eye disease after alemtuzumab treatment. We performed a retrospective chart review of MS patients treated with alemtuzumab (1995-2018) and subsequently identified by their treating physicians as having developed TED and referred to our ophthalmology service. As an original trial centre for alemtuzumab, our hospital has treated approximately 162 MS patients with this novel therapy. In total, 71 (44%) developed thyroid dysfunction, most of whom (87%) developed Graves' disease, with ten (16%) referred for ophthalmological evaluation. Two developed active orbitopathy following radioiodine treatment; one occurred after cessation of anti-thyroid drug treatment. Three developed sight-threatening disease requiring systemic immunosuppression, with one refractory to multiple immunosuppressants. The remaining patients were treated conservatively. TSH-receptor antibody (TRAb) levels were significantly raised in all cases, when ascertained. We report sight-threatening as well as mild TED in MS patients after treatment with alemtuzumab. Endocrine instability, radioiodine treatment and positive TRAb are all likely risk factors. The data support at least 6-monthly biochemical and clinical assessment with a low threshold for referral to an ophthalmologist, particularly for those with higher TRAb levels who may be at greater risk of orbitopathy.
27864844	Capecitabine	Granuloma, Pyogenic	1	0	0	0		Pyogenic granuloma possibly associated with capecitabine therapy.	
27649838	Nivolumab	Uveitis, Anterior	1	0	0	0		Case of acute anterior uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome-like eruptions induced by nivolumab in a melanoma patient.	
27649838	Nivolumab	Uveomeningoencephalitic Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Case of acute anterior uveitis and Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome-like eruptions induced by nivolumab in a melanoma patient.	
31074377	Linezolid	Nervous System Diseases	0	0	0	0		ODAE: Ontology-based systematic representation and analysis of drug adverse events and its usage in study of adverse events given different patient age and disease conditions.	BACKGROUND: Drug adverse events (AEs), or called adverse drug events (ADEs), are ranked one of the leading causes of mortality. The Ontology of Adverse Events (OAE) has been widely used for adverse event AE representation, standardization, and analysis. OAE-based ADE-specific ontologies, including ODNAE for drug-associated neuropathy-inducing AEs and OCVDAE for cardiovascular drug AEs, have also been developed and used. However, these ADE-specific ontologies do not consider the effects of other factors (e.g., age and drug-treated disease) on the outcomes of ADEs. With more ontological studies of ADEs, it is also critical to develop a general purpose ontology for representing ADEs for various types of drugs. RESULTS: Our survey of FDA drug package insert documents and other resources for 224 neuropathy-inducing drugs discovered that many drugs (e.g., sirolimus and linezolid) cause different AEs given patients' age or the diseases treated by the drugs. To logically represent the complex relations among drug, drug ingredient and mechanism of action, AE, age, disease, and other related factors, an ontology design pattern was developed and applied to generate a community-driven open-source Ontology of Drug Adverse Events (ODAE). The ODAE development follows the OBO Foundry ontology development principles (e.g., openness and collaboration). Built on a generalizable ODAE design pattern and extending the OAE and NDF-RT ontology, ODAE has represented various AEs associated with the over 200 neuropathy-inducing drugs given different age and disease conditions. ODAE is now deposited in the Ontobee for browsing and queries. As a demonstration of usage, a SPARQL query of the ODAE knowledge base was developed to identify all the drugs having the mechanisms of ion channel interactions, the diseases treated with the drugs, and AEs after the treatment in adult patients. AE-specific drug class effects were also explored using ODAE and SPARQL. CONCLUSION: ODAE provides a general representation of ADEs given different conditions and can be used for querying scientific questions. ODAE is also a robust knowledge base and platform for semantic and logic representation and study of ADEs of more drugs in the future.
30137217	Cilostazol	Migraine Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Induction of migraine-like headache, but not aura, by cilostazol in patients with migraine with aura.	Whether migraine headache and migraine aura share common pathophysiological mechanisms remains to be understood. Cilostazol causes cAMP accumulation and provokes migraine-like headache in migraine patients without aura. We investigated if cilostazol induces aura and migraine-like headache in patients with migraine with aura and alters peripheral endothelial function and levels of endothelial markers. In a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover study, 16 patients with migraine with aura (of whom 12 patients exclusively had attacks of migraine with aura) received 200 mg cilostazol (Pletal(R)) or placebo on two separate days. The development, duration, and characteristics of aura and headache were recorded using a questionnaire. Peripheral endothelial function was assessed by digital pulse amplitude tonometry using EndoPAT2000, and endothelial markers (VCAM1, E-selectin, and VEGFA) were measured. After administration of cilostazol, 14 patients (88%) experienced headache compared with six patients (38%) after placebo (P = 0.009). The headache in 12 patients (75%) after cilostazol and one patient (6%) after placebo fulfilled the criteria for migraine-like attacks (P = 0.0002). Patients reported that the attack mimicked the headache phase during their usual migraine attacks. However, aura symptoms were elicited in one patient after cilostazol and one patient after placebo. Further, endothelial function, as assessed by peripheral arterial tonometry, and endothelial markers were not significantly altered by cilostazol. Accumulation of cAMP by cilostazol induces migraine-like headache, but not aura, in patients with migraine with aura, even in those who exclusively reported attacks of migraine with aura in their spontaneous attacks. These findings further support dissociation between the aura and the headache phase with a yet unknown trigger for the aura and link between aura and headache. In addition, cilostazol administration did not significantly alter endothelial function, as assessed by peripheral arterial tonometry, or the endothelial markers, VCAM1, E-selectin, and VEGFA. However, post hoc analyses showed that our study was statistically underpowered for these outcomes.
29730938	Aripiprazole	Diabetes, Gestational	1	1	0	0	0.0	Continuation of Atypical Antipsychotic Medication During Early Pregnancy and the Risk of Gestational Diabetes.	"OBJECTIVE: Some atypical antipsychotics are associated with metabolic side effects, which are risk factors for gestational diabetes. The authors examined the risk of developing gestational diabetes associated with the continuation of treatment with aripiprazole, ziprasidone, quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine during pregnancy compared with discontinuation of these antipsychotic drugs. METHOD: Nondiabetic pregnant women who were linked to a live-born infant and enrolled in Medicaid (2000-2010) and who received one or more prescriptions dispensed for an antipsychotic drug during the 3 months before pregnancy were included in the analyses. Among 1,543,334 pregnancies, some expectant mothers at baseline were receiving treatment with aripiprazole (N=1,924), ziprasidone (N=673), quetiapine (N=4,533), risperidone (N=1,824), or olanzapine (N=1,425). For each antipsychotic drug, women with two or more dispensings (""continuers"") were compared with women with no dispensings (""discontinuers"") during the first half of pregnancy. A generalized linear model and propensity-score stratification were used to obtain absolute and relative risks of developing gestational diabetes, with adjustment for confounders. RESULTS: Women who continued antipsychotic treatment during pregnancy generally had higher comorbidity and longer baseline antipsychotic use. The crude risk of developing gestational diabetes among continuers compared with discontinuers, respectively, was 4.8% and 4.5% for aripiprazole, 4.2% and 3.8% for ziprasidone, 7.1% and 4.1% for quetiapine, 6.4% and 4.1% for risperidone, and 12.0% and 4.7% for olanzapine. The adjusted relative risks were 0.82 (95% CI=0.50-1.33) for aripiprazole, 0.76 (95% CI=0.29-2.00) for ziprasidone, 1.28 (95% CI=1.01-1.62) for quetiapine, 1.09 (95% CI=0.70-1.70) for risperidone, and 1.61 (95% CI=1.13-2.29) for olanzapine. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with women who discontinued use of an atypical antipsychotic medication before the start of pregnancy, women who continued treatment with olanzapine or quetiapine had an increased risk of gestational diabetes that may be explained by the metabolic effects associated with these two drugs."
29730938	Olanzapine	Diabetes, Gestational	1	1	0	0	0.0	Continuation of Atypical Antipsychotic Medication During Early Pregnancy and the Risk of Gestational Diabetes.	"OBJECTIVE: Some atypical antipsychotics are associated with metabolic side effects, which are risk factors for gestational diabetes. The authors examined the risk of developing gestational diabetes associated with the continuation of treatment with aripiprazole, ziprasidone, quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine during pregnancy compared with discontinuation of these antipsychotic drugs. METHOD: Nondiabetic pregnant women who were linked to a live-born infant and enrolled in Medicaid (2000-2010) and who received one or more prescriptions dispensed for an antipsychotic drug during the 3 months before pregnancy were included in the analyses. Among 1,543,334 pregnancies, some expectant mothers at baseline were receiving treatment with aripiprazole (N=1,924), ziprasidone (N=673), quetiapine (N=4,533), risperidone (N=1,824), or olanzapine (N=1,425). For each antipsychotic drug, women with two or more dispensings (""continuers"") were compared with women with no dispensings (""discontinuers"") during the first half of pregnancy. A generalized linear model and propensity-score stratification were used to obtain absolute and relative risks of developing gestational diabetes, with adjustment for confounders. RESULTS: Women who continued antipsychotic treatment during pregnancy generally had higher comorbidity and longer baseline antipsychotic use. The crude risk of developing gestational diabetes among continuers compared with discontinuers, respectively, was 4.8% and 4.5% for aripiprazole, 4.2% and 3.8% for ziprasidone, 7.1% and 4.1% for quetiapine, 6.4% and 4.1% for risperidone, and 12.0% and 4.7% for olanzapine. The adjusted relative risks were 0.82 (95% CI=0.50-1.33) for aripiprazole, 0.76 (95% CI=0.29-2.00) for ziprasidone, 1.28 (95% CI=1.01-1.62) for quetiapine, 1.09 (95% CI=0.70-1.70) for risperidone, and 1.61 (95% CI=1.13-2.29) for olanzapine. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with women who discontinued use of an atypical antipsychotic medication before the start of pregnancy, women who continued treatment with olanzapine or quetiapine had an increased risk of gestational diabetes that may be explained by the metabolic effects associated with these two drugs."
29730938	Quetiapine Fumarate	Diabetes, Gestational	1	1	0	0	0.0	Continuation of Atypical Antipsychotic Medication During Early Pregnancy and the Risk of Gestational Diabetes.	"OBJECTIVE: Some atypical antipsychotics are associated with metabolic side effects, which are risk factors for gestational diabetes. The authors examined the risk of developing gestational diabetes associated with the continuation of treatment with aripiprazole, ziprasidone, quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine during pregnancy compared with discontinuation of these antipsychotic drugs. METHOD: Nondiabetic pregnant women who were linked to a live-born infant and enrolled in Medicaid (2000-2010) and who received one or more prescriptions dispensed for an antipsychotic drug during the 3 months before pregnancy were included in the analyses. Among 1,543,334 pregnancies, some expectant mothers at baseline were receiving treatment with aripiprazole (N=1,924), ziprasidone (N=673), quetiapine (N=4,533), risperidone (N=1,824), or olanzapine (N=1,425). For each antipsychotic drug, women with two or more dispensings (""continuers"") were compared with women with no dispensings (""discontinuers"") during the first half of pregnancy. A generalized linear model and propensity-score stratification were used to obtain absolute and relative risks of developing gestational diabetes, with adjustment for confounders. RESULTS: Women who continued antipsychotic treatment during pregnancy generally had higher comorbidity and longer baseline antipsychotic use. The crude risk of developing gestational diabetes among continuers compared with discontinuers, respectively, was 4.8% and 4.5% for aripiprazole, 4.2% and 3.8% for ziprasidone, 7.1% and 4.1% for quetiapine, 6.4% and 4.1% for risperidone, and 12.0% and 4.7% for olanzapine. The adjusted relative risks were 0.82 (95% CI=0.50-1.33) for aripiprazole, 0.76 (95% CI=0.29-2.00) for ziprasidone, 1.28 (95% CI=1.01-1.62) for quetiapine, 1.09 (95% CI=0.70-1.70) for risperidone, and 1.61 (95% CI=1.13-2.29) for olanzapine. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with women who discontinued use of an atypical antipsychotic medication before the start of pregnancy, women who continued treatment with olanzapine or quetiapine had an increased risk of gestational diabetes that may be explained by the metabolic effects associated with these two drugs."
29730938	Risperidone	Diabetes, Gestational	1	1	0	0	0.0	Continuation of Atypical Antipsychotic Medication During Early Pregnancy and the Risk of Gestational Diabetes.	"OBJECTIVE: Some atypical antipsychotics are associated with metabolic side effects, which are risk factors for gestational diabetes. The authors examined the risk of developing gestational diabetes associated with the continuation of treatment with aripiprazole, ziprasidone, quetiapine, risperidone, and olanzapine during pregnancy compared with discontinuation of these antipsychotic drugs. METHOD: Nondiabetic pregnant women who were linked to a live-born infant and enrolled in Medicaid (2000-2010) and who received one or more prescriptions dispensed for an antipsychotic drug during the 3 months before pregnancy were included in the analyses. Among 1,543,334 pregnancies, some expectant mothers at baseline were receiving treatment with aripiprazole (N=1,924), ziprasidone (N=673), quetiapine (N=4,533), risperidone (N=1,824), or olanzapine (N=1,425). For each antipsychotic drug, women with two or more dispensings (""continuers"") were compared with women with no dispensings (""discontinuers"") during the first half of pregnancy. A generalized linear model and propensity-score stratification were used to obtain absolute and relative risks of developing gestational diabetes, with adjustment for confounders. RESULTS: Women who continued antipsychotic treatment during pregnancy generally had higher comorbidity and longer baseline antipsychotic use. The crude risk of developing gestational diabetes among continuers compared with discontinuers, respectively, was 4.8% and 4.5% for aripiprazole, 4.2% and 3.8% for ziprasidone, 7.1% and 4.1% for quetiapine, 6.4% and 4.1% for risperidone, and 12.0% and 4.7% for olanzapine. The adjusted relative risks were 0.82 (95% CI=0.50-1.33) for aripiprazole, 0.76 (95% CI=0.29-2.00) for ziprasidone, 1.28 (95% CI=1.01-1.62) for quetiapine, 1.09 (95% CI=0.70-1.70) for risperidone, and 1.61 (95% CI=1.13-2.29) for olanzapine. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with women who discontinued use of an atypical antipsychotic medication before the start of pregnancy, women who continued treatment with olanzapine or quetiapine had an increased risk of gestational diabetes that may be explained by the metabolic effects associated with these two drugs."
28817390	Bevacizumab	Hypoalbuminemia	0	0	0	0		Hypoalbuminemia is a Predictive Factor for Fistula Formation in Recurrent Cervical Cancer.	OBJECTIVE: Antivascular endothelial growth factor monoclonal antibodies inhibit tumor angiogenesis, consequently impeding the recruitment of new vasculature to existing and new tumor lesions. We sought to evaluate toxicities in women with recurrent cervical cancer after receiving bevacizumab combination chemotherapy. METHODS: A review was conducted of women with recurrent and metastatic cervical cancer who were treated with salvage chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab between 2005 and 2015. Clinicopathologic data and reasons for treatment discontinuation were recorded. Patients that were excluded had other histology than squamous or adenocarcinoma, received 1 cycle of salvage chemotherapy, single agent bevacizumab, currently on treatment, or noncompliant. Statistical analysis was performed using the Fishers Exact Test, logistic regression, and Kaplan-Meier Survival Analysis. RESULTS: A total of 74 patients were included in analysis. Twenty-six patients were treated with bevacizumab (BEV) and chemotherapy and 48 patients with chemotherapy alone (chemotherapy). The progression free survival was significant with median 12 months versus 7 months for the BEV cohort (P<0.01) and the overall survival was a median 74 months versus 23 months for the BEV cohort (P=0.06). Cessation of treatment secondary to severe toxicities was seen in 46% (n=12) of BEV cohort versus 15% (n=7) of chemotherapy cohort (P<0.01). Twenty-seven percent (n=7) of patients in the BEV cohort stopped secondary because of fistula formations. Lower albumin levels and use of bevacizumab were identified as an independent predictor factors for fistula formation (P=0.004 and 0.024, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Hypoalbuminemia and bevacizumab treatments are significant predictive factors of fistula formation in patients treated for recurrent cervical cancer.
28774864	Colistin	Necrosis	0	0	0	0		Administration of colistin sulfate in endotoxic model at slow and sustained fashion may reverse shock without causing nephrotoxicity in its optimal concentration.	OBJECTIVES: Despite of proven LPS neutralizing activity, intravenous polymyxin use was waned due to experience of associated nephrotoxicity. But, increasing resistance to all available antibiotics has necessitated their resurgence and the prodrug of colistin sulfate (CS), known as colistin-methanesulfonate (CMS), is increasingly used as the only therapeutic option in many infections. Currently available CMS employ very different dose definitions and thus because of complex pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics information and short half-life, this drug use remains confusing. We aimed to expose CS in endotoxic shock models by micro-osmotic pump and evaluated its effectiveness. METHODS: We used micro-osmotic pumps to deliver either sterile saline or CS at different dosages ranging from 0.25mg/day to 7mg/day for consecutive 3days in LPS (8mg/kg body weight) induced endotoxic mice and observed their outcome twice daily for a week to determine the survival rate. Serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels and apoptosis in renal tissues in these models were evaluated. RESULTS: We showed endotoxic shock was reversed and all mice survived with a CS administration at a dosage of 2mg/day for 3 days, in comparison to survival rate with saline administration (p</=0.0001) in endotoxic models. CS infusion in shock models using micro-osmotic pump ameliorated rising of serum TNF-alpha, IL-12p70 and IL-6 levels. Nephrotoxicity was evident only with a higher dosage, but not with a lower dosage which was optimum to control endotoxic shock in models. CONCLUSIONS: These results highlighted that an optimal dosage of CS effectively improved outcome in endotoxic shock models without causing nephrotoxicity when administered at a slow and sustained manner. And a higher CS dosage administration was nephrotoxic and fatal. Thus this study bought an opportunity to consider future investigations with CS administration in murine Gram-negative bacterial infections in a novel way.
31155534	Bendamustine Hydrochloride	Nausea	0	0	0	0		[Clinical Pharmacology Research for Promoting Individualized Cancer Chemotherapy].	Cancer chemotherapy has progressed remarkably with conventional and molecular-targeted anticancer drugs as well as immune checkpoint inhibitors. However, adverse drug reaction (ADR) management remains a challenge in cancer chemotherapy. Therefore, improving the quality of medical care through clinical pharmacology research is warranted. Intravenous injection of bendamustine in patients with follicular or mantle cell lymphoma frequently causes venous irritation. Because the underlying mechanisms are not clear, we investigated the factors responsible for bendamustine-induced venous irritation. Based on the results of our analysis, we altered the administration regimen and observed that the incidence of venous irritation, which manifested in a concentration-dependent manner following conventional approaches, significantly decreased when following the modified regimen. Guidelines on the management of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting recommend aprepitant, a selective neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist, 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT(3)) receptor antagonists, and dexamethasone as prophylactic antiemetics. Pretreatment with high-dose chemotherapy before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has extremely high emetogenic potential. This can be countered by using aprepitant in combination with conventional antiemetics. However, the safety and efficacy of such combinations are unexplored. Upon evaluation, we observed improved antiemetic effects without an increase in ADRs. At this symposium, I highlight the significance of clinical pharmacology research for promoting individualized cancer chemotherapy.
31073921	Meloxicam	Gastrointestinal Diseases	0	1	0	0		Safety of Oral Non-Selective Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs in Osteoarthritis: What Does the Literature Say?	Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely recommended and prescribed to treat pain in osteoarthritis. While measured to have a moderate effect on pain in osteoarthritis, NSAIDs have been associated with wide-ranging adverse events affecting the gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, and renal systems. Gastrointestinal toxicity is found with all NSAIDs, which may be of particular concern when treating older patients with osteoarthritis, and gastric adverse events may be reduced by taking a concomitant gastroprotective agent, although intestinal adverse events are not ameliorated. Cardiovascular toxicity is associated with all NSAIDs to some extent and the degree of risk appears to be pharmacotherapy specific. An increased risk of acute myocardial infarction and heart failure is observed with all NSAIDs, while an elevated risk of hemorrhagic stroke appears to be restricted to the use of diclofenac and meloxicam. All NSAIDs have the potential to induce acute kidney injury, and patients with osteoarthritis with co-morbid conditions including hypertension, heart failure, and diabetes mellitus are at increased risk. Osteoarthritis is associated with excess mortality, which may be explained by reduced levels of physical activity owing to lower limb pain, presence of comorbid conditions, and the adverse effects of anti-osteoarthritis medications especially NSAIDs. This narrative review of recent literature identifies data on the safety of non-selective NSAIDs to better understand the risk:benefit of using NSAIDs to manage pain in osteoarthritis.
31073921	Meloxicam	Myocardial Infarction	0	1	0	0		Safety of Oral Non-Selective Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs in Osteoarthritis: What Does the Literature Say?	Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely recommended and prescribed to treat pain in osteoarthritis. While measured to have a moderate effect on pain in osteoarthritis, NSAIDs have been associated with wide-ranging adverse events affecting the gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, and renal systems. Gastrointestinal toxicity is found with all NSAIDs, which may be of particular concern when treating older patients with osteoarthritis, and gastric adverse events may be reduced by taking a concomitant gastroprotective agent, although intestinal adverse events are not ameliorated. Cardiovascular toxicity is associated with all NSAIDs to some extent and the degree of risk appears to be pharmacotherapy specific. An increased risk of acute myocardial infarction and heart failure is observed with all NSAIDs, while an elevated risk of hemorrhagic stroke appears to be restricted to the use of diclofenac and meloxicam. All NSAIDs have the potential to induce acute kidney injury, and patients with osteoarthritis with co-morbid conditions including hypertension, heart failure, and diabetes mellitus are at increased risk. Osteoarthritis is associated with excess mortality, which may be explained by reduced levels of physical activity owing to lower limb pain, presence of comorbid conditions, and the adverse effects of anti-osteoarthritis medications especially NSAIDs. This narrative review of recent literature identifies data on the safety of non-selective NSAIDs to better understand the risk:benefit of using NSAIDs to manage pain in osteoarthritis.
30669852	Alprostadil	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Effect of Alprostadil on the Prevention of Contrast-Induced Nephropathy: A Meta-Analysis of 36 Randomized Controlled Trials.	Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is the third leading cause of acquired acute renal injury in hospitalized patients. Alprostadil plays a role in the maintenance and redistribution of intrarenal blood flow and the excretion of electrolytes and water. However, the effectiveness of alprostadil in preventing CIN remains controversial. Thirty-six articles with a total of 5495 patients were included in this study. Both groups (experimental group and control group) received standard hydration therapy. In the experimental group, patients received different doses of alprostadil. Serum creatinine (SCr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), cystatin C, creatinine clearance rate (CCr), and beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG) were measured at 24, 48, and 72 hours after contrast media injection. The incidence of CIN in the experimental group was significantly lower than that in the control group (6.56% vs 16.74%). The level of SCr, cystatin C, BUN, and beta2-MG in the experimental group was lower than those in the control group; CCr and eGFR in the experimental group were higher than those in the control group. This study demonstrated that alprostadil may reduce the incidence of CIN in patients undergoing coronary angiogram and/or percutaneous coronary intervention.
30626829	Nivolumab	Cholangitis, Sclerosing	1	1	0	0	0.0	Efficacy and Safety of Chemotherapy Following Anti-PD-1 Antibody Therapy for Gastric Cancer: A Case of Sclerosing Cholangitis.	Immunotherapy targeting programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) signaling is becoming the standard of care for advanced gastric cancer. We herein report a patient with gastric adenocarcinoma with peritoneal dissemination who was treated with nab-paclitaxel and ramucirumab following nivolumab and developed sclerosing cholangitis. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography showed irregular narrowing and widening of the entire intrahepatic biliary system. Intriguingly, the patient receiving second-line chemotherapy with nab-paclitaxel plus ramucirumab prior to being administered nivolumab, however, he had experienced progressive disease. Thereafter, the administration of fourth-line chemotherapy with nab-paclitaxel and ramucirumab following nivolumab resulted in a clinical response. Nivolumab may enhance the efficacy of the subsequent chemotherapy regimens but also induce sclerosing cholangitis.
30005587	Zoledronic Acid	Inflammation	1	0	0	1		Zoledronic acid-induced orbital inflammation in a patient with multiple myeloma.	Multiple myeloma is a cancer of malignant plasma cells which stimulates osteoclasts and is associated with increased bone turnover and osteolysis. Bisphosphonates including zolendronic acid are used to prevent skeletal complications in patients with multiple myeloma. Orbital inflammation is a rare but serious complication following use of bisphosphonates. The diagnosis is made by excluding other possible causes in patients with myeloma and rapid initiation of therapy is required. Corticosteroids are the mainstay of therapy but the ideal treatment course has not been delineated. This report describes a case of this rare complication and provides a review of the literature.
30005587	Zoledronic Acid	Orbital Diseases	1	0	0	1		Zoledronic acid-induced orbital inflammation in a patient with multiple myeloma.	Multiple myeloma is a cancer of malignant plasma cells which stimulates osteoclasts and is associated with increased bone turnover and osteolysis. Bisphosphonates including zolendronic acid are used to prevent skeletal complications in patients with multiple myeloma. Orbital inflammation is a rare but serious complication following use of bisphosphonates. The diagnosis is made by excluding other possible causes in patients with myeloma and rapid initiation of therapy is required. Corticosteroids are the mainstay of therapy but the ideal treatment course has not been delineated. This report describes a case of this rare complication and provides a review of the literature.
29803825	Botulinum Toxins, Type A	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		A Delphi-Based Consensus Statement on the Management of Anticoagulated Patients With Botulinum Toxin for Limb Spasticity.	OBJECTIVE: To create a consensus statement on the considerations for treatment of anticoagulated patients with botulinum toxin A (BoNTA) intramuscular injections for limb spasticity. DESIGN: We used the Delphi method. SETTING: A multiquestion electronic survey. PARTICIPANTS: Canadian physicians (N=39) who use BoNTA injections for spasticity management in their practice. INTERVENTIONS: After the survey was sent, there were e-mail discussions to facilitate an understanding of the issues underlying the responses. Consensus for each question was reached when agreement level was >/=75%. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Not applicable. RESULTS: When injecting BoNTA in anticoagulated patients: (1) BoNTA injections should not be withheld regardless of muscles injected; (2) a 25G or smaller size needle should be used when injecting into the deep leg compartment muscles; (3) international normalized ratio (INR) level should be </=3.5 when injecting the deep leg compartment muscles; (4) if there are clinical concerns such as history of a fluctuating INR, recent bleeding, excessive or new bruising, then an INR value on the day of injection with point-of-care testing or within the preceding 2-3 days should be taken into consideration when injecting deep compartment muscles; (5) the concern regarding bleeding when using direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) should be the same as with warfarin (when INR is in the therapeutic range); (6) the dose and scheduling of DOACs should not be altered for the purpose of minimizing the risk of bleeding prior to BoNTA injections. CONCLUSIONS: These consensus statements provide a framework for physicians to consider when injecting BoNTA for spasticity in anticoagulated patients. These consensus statements are not strict guidelines or decision-making steps, but rather an effort to generate common understanding in the absence of evidence in the literature.
29668470	Carboplatin	Hodgkin Disease	1	1	0	0	0.0	Secondary Hodgkin Lymphoma and Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) After Paclitaxel-Carboplatin Treatment in a Patient with Small Cell Lung Cancer.	Herein synchronous occurrence of Hodgkin lymphoma and secondary myelodysplastic syndrome in a 60 year old male patient with small cell lung cancer treated with combined chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) and radiotherapy is presented. The objective of this report is to stress the importance of documenting and monitoring adverse drug reactions that arise from chemotherapy. After four years of treatment with the combined chemotherapy, the patient presented inguinal lymphadenopathy and enlarged lymph nodes and histopathology rapport was suggestive for plasmacytoid variant of Castleman disease. Three years later, biopsy of lymph node was performed and diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma - mixed cellularity has been established. Molecular analyses revealed presence of dominant monoclonal population of the immunoglobulin genes in the oligo/monoclonal background. Bone marrow biopsy findings suggested secondary myelodysplasia and revealed signs of hematopoietic cells dismaturation with signs of megaloblastic maturation of the erytropoetic lineage, appearance of ALIP (abnormal localization of immature precursors) in the myeloid lineage and dysplastic megakaryocytes. In addition, an increased level of polyclonal plasmacytes (lambda vs kappa was 60%:40%) was found. Hodgkin lymphoma and MDS occurring after 4 years of carboplatin/paclitaxel therapy might be contributed to the accumulation of alkylator-related DNA damage. This emphasize the need of outlining a monitoring plan regarding development of secondary leukemia and other malignant hematological proliferations should be outlined in the protocols.
29668470	Paclitaxel	Hodgkin Disease	1	1	0	0	0.0	Secondary Hodgkin Lymphoma and Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) After Paclitaxel-Carboplatin Treatment in a Patient with Small Cell Lung Cancer.	Herein synchronous occurrence of Hodgkin lymphoma and secondary myelodysplastic syndrome in a 60 year old male patient with small cell lung cancer treated with combined chemotherapy (carboplatin and paclitaxel) and radiotherapy is presented. The objective of this report is to stress the importance of documenting and monitoring adverse drug reactions that arise from chemotherapy. After four years of treatment with the combined chemotherapy, the patient presented inguinal lymphadenopathy and enlarged lymph nodes and histopathology rapport was suggestive for plasmacytoid variant of Castleman disease. Three years later, biopsy of lymph node was performed and diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma - mixed cellularity has been established. Molecular analyses revealed presence of dominant monoclonal population of the immunoglobulin genes in the oligo/monoclonal background. Bone marrow biopsy findings suggested secondary myelodysplasia and revealed signs of hematopoietic cells dismaturation with signs of megaloblastic maturation of the erytropoetic lineage, appearance of ALIP (abnormal localization of immature precursors) in the myeloid lineage and dysplastic megakaryocytes. In addition, an increased level of polyclonal plasmacytes (lambda vs kappa was 60%:40%) was found. Hodgkin lymphoma and MDS occurring after 4 years of carboplatin/paclitaxel therapy might be contributed to the accumulation of alkylator-related DNA damage. This emphasize the need of outlining a monitoring plan regarding development of secondary leukemia and other malignant hematological proliferations should be outlined in the protocols.
29371420	Oleanolic Acid	Albuminuria	0	0	0	0		Should We Increase GFR with Bardoxolone in Alport Syndrome?	
28844069	Nivolumab	Demyelinating Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acute demyelinating polyneuropathy induced by nivolumab.	
28844069	Nivolumab	Polyneuropathies	1	0	0	0		Acute demyelinating polyneuropathy induced by nivolumab.	
28489009	Infliximab	Pulmonary Atelectasis	0	1	0	0		[Vanishing lungs - a case report].	A 55 year old female with rheumatoid arthritis who was repeatedly admitted to internal medicine for fever, shortness of breath and pleuritic chest pain. Laboratory work up showed normal WBC but elevated CRP and sedimentatation rate. Cultures were negative. Imaging studies revealed elevated diaphragms, bilateral atelectasis and pleural fluid but normal lung parenchyma. Lung function testing showed restriction. Anti-dsDNA and anti-Ro/SSA were elevated. A clinical diagnosis of anti-TNF-induced lupus secondary to infliximab and shrinking lung syndrome was made. The patient showed improvement on steroids but subsequent worsening when tapered. Rituximab was then initiated with good results. Key words: rheumatoid arthritis, infliximab, restrictive lung disease, shrinking lung syndrome, anti-TNF induced lupus. Correspondence: Thorunn Halldora Thordardottir, thorhtho@landspitali.is.
28439948	Vemurafenib	Keratoderma, Palmoplantar	1	0	0	0		Keratoacanthoma, palmoplantar keratoderma developing in an advanced melanoma patient treated with vemurafenib regressed by blockade of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase signaling.	
28416786	Milrinone	Vasospasm, Intracranial	1	1	1	1	1.0	Basilar artery vasospasm after pretuncal non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage responding to milrinone.	Pretruncal (perimesencephalic) non-aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (PNSAH) is uniformly associated with an excellent outcome. Although cerebral vasospasm remains a common complication of SAH and constitutes an important predictor of outcome, in the setting of PNSAH, it is extremely rare. Preturnal non-aneurysmal subarac refers to a subset of SAH patients with a characteristic pattern of localized blood on CT of the head, normal cerebral angiography, and benign course when compared to the aneurysmal SAH population. The presence of radiological or even clinical vasospasm does not exclude the diagnosis of PNSAH. To our knowledge, this is the first case of symptomatic cerebral vasospasm due to PNSAH that responded to milrinone.
28416782	Lamotrigine	Intracranial Arteriosclerosis	0	1	0	0		Assessment of atherosclerotic risk among patients with epilepsy on valproic acid, lamotrigine, and carbamazepine treatment.	OBJECTIVE: To compare the long-term effects of carbamazepine (CBZ), valproic acid (VPA), and lamotrigine (LTG) as monotherapy on the markers of vascular risk. METHODS: The present cross-sectional study was carried out at the Department of Neurology, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC), Karachi, Pakistan, from 2012 to 2013. We selected 120 adult patients with epilepsy and 40 control subjects. The patients with epilepsy were divided into 3 groups according to the use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) (CBZ, n = 40; VPA, n = 40; and LTG, n = 40). All participants; total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c), very low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (VLDL-c), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-c), ratio of TC/HDL-c, ratio of LDL-c/HDL-c, body mass index (BMI), and blood pressure was determined. RESULTS: In patients with epilepsy, CBZ and VPA treatment caused a noteworthy increase in the concentrations of TG, TC, and LDL-c compared with LTG treatment and the control group (p<0.001). The HDL-c significantly decreased in CBZ, VPA, and LTG-treated patients as compared with controls (p<0.001). The ratio of LDL-c/HDL-c and TC/HDL-c significantly increased in VPA- and CBZ-treated groups compared with the LTG-treated, and control group, while the ratio was also considerably elevated in patients treated with CBZ as compared with the patients treated with VPA. The weight and BMI of the patients treated with AEDs were higher (p<0.01). CONCLUSION: Patients with epilepsy on CBZ or VPA have changed vascular risk markers that may lead to atherosclerosis, while LTG-treated patients have less alteration in lipid profile.
28295551	Nivolumab	Atrioventricular Block	1	0	0	0		Hypopituitarism and hypothyroidism following atrioventricular block during nivolumab treatment.	
27859507	Bromocriptine	Skin Ulcer	1	0	0	0		Bromoderma in a pituitary adenoma patient treated with bromocriptine.	
27510812	Calcitriol	Dog Diseases	0	0	0	0		Renal failure in dogs kept by a man with severe psoriasis.	
27510735	Cytarabine	Hair Diseases	1	0	0	0		Spiny hyperkeratosis (trichodysplasia spinulosa-like eruption): a cutaneous adverse effect of Hedgehog pathway inhibitors involving expression of p16.	
27510735	Cytarabine	Keratosis	1	0	0	0		Spiny hyperkeratosis (trichodysplasia spinulosa-like eruption): a cutaneous adverse effect of Hedgehog pathway inhibitors involving expression of p16.	
27206322	Adalimumab	Diabetes Mellitus	1	0	0	0		Acquired hemophilia A and fulminant diabetes mellitus possibly caused by adalimumab in a patient with psoriatic arthritis.	
27206322	Adalimumab	Hemophilia A	1	0	0	0		Acquired hemophilia A and fulminant diabetes mellitus possibly caused by adalimumab in a patient with psoriatic arthritis.	
30927672	Sodium Fluoride	Learning Disabilities	1	1	0	0	0.0	GSTO1 acts as a mediator in sodium fluoride-induced alterations of learning and memory related factors expressions in the hippocampus cell line.	The mechanism of GSTO1, as a high-risk factor for neurological damage, in sodium fluoride (NaF)-induced learning and memory impairment remained still unclear. Hence, in this study, we used the siRNA-GSTO1 HT22 model to explore the effect of NaF and siRNA-GSTO1 on the viability, and proliferation rate of HT22 cells, as well as the mRNA and protein expression levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding protein (CREB), neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), stem cell factor (SCF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The results of MTT showed that 10(-3), 10(-4), and 10(-5) moL/L sodium fluoride (NaF) exposure could significantly promote the proliferation of HT22 cells at 24 h, 36 h, and 48 h, respectively. In addition, our results showed that exposure to 10(-3), 10(-4), and 10(-5) moL/l NaF increased GSTO1 mRNA and protein expression, but decreased CREB and BDNF expression levels in a dose and time-dependent manner. The mRNA and protein expressions of GSTO1, CREB and BDNF were significantly decreased in the siRNA-GSTO1 and NaF + siRNA-GSTO1 group (P < 0.05). We have shown that various NaF doses affected the learning and memory ability by down-regulation the expressions of CREB, BDNF, NCAM and SCF. In summary, we concluded that GSTO1 plays a mediator role in NaF-induced neurological damage.
30927672	Sodium Fluoride	Memory Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	GSTO1 acts as a mediator in sodium fluoride-induced alterations of learning and memory related factors expressions in the hippocampus cell line.	The mechanism of GSTO1, as a high-risk factor for neurological damage, in sodium fluoride (NaF)-induced learning and memory impairment remained still unclear. Hence, in this study, we used the siRNA-GSTO1 HT22 model to explore the effect of NaF and siRNA-GSTO1 on the viability, and proliferation rate of HT22 cells, as well as the mRNA and protein expression levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response element binding protein (CREB), neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), stem cell factor (SCF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The results of MTT showed that 10(-3), 10(-4), and 10(-5) moL/L sodium fluoride (NaF) exposure could significantly promote the proliferation of HT22 cells at 24 h, 36 h, and 48 h, respectively. In addition, our results showed that exposure to 10(-3), 10(-4), and 10(-5) moL/l NaF increased GSTO1 mRNA and protein expression, but decreased CREB and BDNF expression levels in a dose and time-dependent manner. The mRNA and protein expressions of GSTO1, CREB and BDNF were significantly decreased in the siRNA-GSTO1 and NaF + siRNA-GSTO1 group (P < 0.05). We have shown that various NaF doses affected the learning and memory ability by down-regulation the expressions of CREB, BDNF, NCAM and SCF. In summary, we concluded that GSTO1 plays a mediator role in NaF-induced neurological damage.
30875000	Radium	Hematologic Diseases	0	0	0	0		Three-year follow-up of a phase II study of radium-223 dichloride in Japanese patients with symptomatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and bone metastases.	BACKGROUND: Radium-223 is a first-in-class targeted alpha therapy to prolong overall survival (OS) in castration-resistant prostate cancer with bone metastases (mCRPC). The aim of the present analysis was to assess the long-term safety with radium-223 in Japanese patients with mCRPC. METHODS: Patients with symptomatic mCRPC, >/= 2 bone metastases and no known visceral metastases received up to 6 injections of radium-223 (55 kBq/kg), one every 4 weeks. Adverse events (AEs) considered to be related to radium-223 were reported until 3 years after the first injection. Pre-specified conditions, such as acute myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, aplastic anemia, primary bone cancer, or other primary malignancies, were reported regardless of causality. RESULTS: Of the 49 patients enrolled in the study, 44 (89.8%) entered the survival follow-up period and 33 (67.3%) died. Throughout the entire study, there were no reports of second primary malignancy or other pre-specified conditions. Eight patients (16.3%) experienced post-treatment drug-related AEs, which were all hematological (anemia and decreased lymphocyte, platelet, and white blood cell counts). No serious post-treatment drug-related AEs were reported. Updated median OS was 19.3 months (95% CI: 14.2, 28.5). CONCLUSIONS: In Japanese patients with symptomatic mCRPC and bone metastases, radium-223 had a favorable long-term safety profile with no second primary malignancies reported. Taken together with median OS, which was comparable to that in the pivotal phase III ALSYMPCA study, these results support continued benefit from radium-223 in Japanese patients with mCRPC.
30830659	Docetaxel	Neutropenia	0	0	0	0		Japanese subgroup analysis of a phase III study of S-1 versus docetaxel in non-small cell lung cancer patients after platinum-based treatment: EAST-LC.	INTRODUCTION: The East Asia S-1 Trial in Lung Cancer (EAST-LC) was a randomized phase III study conducted in East Asia that demonstrated the non-inferiority of S-1 to docetaxel in previously treated patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Here, we reported the results of the Japanese subgroup treated with docetaxel 60 mg/m(2), the standard dosage in Japan. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were randomized 1:1 to receive either S-1 or docetaxel. The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS); the secondary endpoints included progression-free survival (PFS), response rate (RR), quality of life (QOL), and safety. RESULTS: Patient characteristics in the Japanese subgroup (n = 724) were similar to those in the overall EAST-LC population. Median OS was 13.4 months in the S-1 group and 12.6 months in the docetaxel group. In pemetrexed-pretreated patients, OS with S-1 was similar to that with docetaxel. Median PFS was 2.9 and 3.0 months in the S-1 and docetaxel groups, respectively. RR was 9.4% and 10.3% in the S-1 and docetaxel groups, respectively. The QOL of patients treated with S-1 was better compared with that of patients treated with docetaxel. Decreased appetite and diarrhea were more common in the S-1 group, whereas the frequency of neutropenia and febrile neutropenia was markedly higher in the docetaxel group. CONCLUSIONS: This Japanese subgroup analysis showed that S-1 had similar efficacy to docetaxel in patients with previously treated advanced NSCLC. These results are similar to those of the overall EAST-LC population.
30826492	Vortioxetine	Nausea	1	0	0	0		Treatment effects on residual cognitive symptoms among partially or fully remitted patients with major depressive disorder: A randomized, double-blinded, exploratory study with vortioxetine.	BACKGROUND: Residual cognitive symptoms in major depressive disorder (MDD) are common, yet poorly investigated. We explored the effectiveness of vortioxetine as adjunctive treatment to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) and as monotherapy versus continued SSRI, in patients with MDD who achieved full or partial remission with SSRI, but report residual cognitive symptoms. METHODS: Patients (18-65 years old, N =151) diagnosed with MDD, with a Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 17-items total score </=10 and a Perceived Deficits Questionnaire-Depression total score >25, were randomized 1:1:1 to 8 weeks of double-blind treatment with current SSRI + placebo, SSRI + vortioxetine (10-20 mg/day), or vortioxetine (10-20 mg/day) + placebo. The primary efficacy measure was the Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST), analyzed using a mixed model for repeated measurements. Secondary outcomes comprised cognitive functioning, subjectively-rated cognitive symptoms, patient functioning, and mood symptoms. RESULTS: From baseline to week 8, all treatment groups improved DSST performance, with statistically nonsignificant treatment differences. Similar results were seen for secondary endpoints. Improvement in cognitive performance tended to be numerically larger with vortioxetine monotherapy than with SSRI monotherapy, while vortioxetine as adjunctive treatment tended to perform numerically better in further improving depressive symptoms. Most adverse events were mild or moderate. Nausea was the most common adverse event for vortioxetine. LIMITATIONS: Small sample sizes limited statistical power. CONCLUSION: In this explorative study, remitted patients with MDD improved their cognitive performance with no treatment differences. Secondary results indicate numerical benefits for cognitive performance with vortioxetine monotherapy, and for depressive symptoms with vortioxetine augmentation.
30656463	Cetuximab	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		Safety and efficacy of concurrent carboplatin or cetuximab plus radiotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancer patients ineligible for treatment with cisplatin.	BACKGROUND: Locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LASCCHN) is usually treated with cisplatin (CDDP)-based chemoradiotherapy, except when patients are elderly or have renal, cardiac, or neurogenic dysfunction. This study compared the safety and efficacy of concurrent carboplatin (CBDCA) to cetuximab (Cmab) plus radiotherapy (RT) in patients ineligible for CDDP treatment. METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed LASCCHN patients who received CBDCA plus RT (n = 29) or Cmab plus RT (n = 18) due to ineligibility for CDDP treatment at two Japanese institutions between August 2006 and December 2015. RESULTS: Patients characteristics for CBDCA plus RT and Cmab plus RT were: median age, 74 and 75 years; 0-1 performance status, 90% and 100%; main primary tumor site, hypopharynx 52% (n = 15) and oropharynx 39% (n = 7); and stage IV, 90% (n = 26) and 50% (n = 9), respectively. With a median follow-up time of 60.0 months for CBDCA plus RT and 53.6 months for Cmab plus RT, 3-year locoregional control rates were 56% versus 58%, and median progression-free survival was 42.7 versus 11.6 months. CBDCA plus RT was associated with more grade 3/4 hematologic toxicities, including neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, whereas Cmab plus RT was associated with more grade 3/4 oral mucositis and radiation dermatitis. CONCLUSIONS: CBDCA or Cmab as a concurrent systemic therapy with RT is a possible treatment option for LASCCHN patients ineligible for CDDP treatment, although attention to hematological toxicity should be paid.
29675847	Deferasirox	Kidney Diseases	0	0	0	0		Renal safety under long-course deferasirox therapy in iron overloaded transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia and other anemias.	
31277136	Tolvaptan	Hypernatremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Hypernatremia induced by low-dose Tolvaptan in a Patient with refractory heart failure: A case report.	RATIONALE: Tolvaptan (TLV) is a selective vasopressin type 2 receptor antagonist, which has an active effect on patients with congestive heart failure especially combined with hyponatremia. Increasingly, evidence has demonstrated that low-dose tolvaptan can dramatically relieve patients' dyspnea and the dose would not cause severe electrolyte abnormalities. Even hypernatremia is a major adverse effect of tolvaptan, treatment with tolvaptan shows good security and is well-tolerated. Few cases have reported that patients who developed severe hypernatremia induced by low-dose Tolvaptan. PATIENT CONCERNS: A 68-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with dyspea and general fatigue. He was diagnosed with acute decompensated heart failure due to ischemic cardiomyopathy. In order to improve fluid retention and relieve his dyspnea, low-dose TLV (7.5 mg qd) was performed. After the 3-day treatment using TLV, we observed that he became delirious and his limbs shook uncontrollably. High serum sodium 173 mmol/L was noted compared to the results of the first examination (137 mmol/L). After intensive rescue, serum sodium was restored to normal (135 mol/L). Later, when the patient refused continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), we tried again to use a lower dose of TLV to improve diuretic resistance. Two days later, Serum sodium rose again (162 mmol/L). DIAGNOSES: During the course of therapy, we did not strictly require the patient to control the fluid intake. No other medication could cause elevation of serum sodium. Therefore, we suspected a high sensitivity to the side effect of TLV. INTERVENTION: Stop the use of TLV and encourage the patient to drink plenty of water. Gastric tube was inserted orally to increase the intake of fresh water. OUTCOMES: His serum sodium decreased gradually and his psychiatric symptom recovered. During this period, Overall condition of the patient was stable. After being discharged from the hospital, the patient eventually died of cardiac arrest due to critically ill heart failure. LESSONS: Hypernatremia is a severe side effect of TLV. For critical patients, TLV should be used at a low dose and electrolyte should be detected in time.
30771745	Manganese	Skin Neoplasms	0	0	0	0		Changes in blood pressure associated with lead, manganese, and selenium in a Bangladeshi cohort.	BACKGROUND: Heavy metal contamination is widespread in Bangladesh. Previous studies have observed lead increases blood pressure over time. However, the role of other metal contaminants and essential micronutrients, which could also adversely affect blood pressure or act as protective factors, is understudied. OBJECTIVES: We therefore evaluated the associations of lead, manganese, and selenium with blood and pulse pressure trajectories. METHODS: We prospectively followed placebo-assigned participants nested within a randomized trial for the prevention of arsenic-related skin cancer (n = 255). Blood lead, manganese, and selenium were measured at baseline; blood pressure was measured at baseline and at 3 biennial follow-up examinations. Mixed-effect linear regression models were used to estimate associations with average annual changes in systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressure. RESULTS: In models simultaneously adjusted for baseline blood lead, manganese, and selenium concentrations in addition to other potential confounders, lead was linearly associated with increases in systolic blood pressure, but not with diastolic blood pressure or pulse pressure. A non-linear association was observed for manganese, such that mid-range concentrations were associated with decreases in systolic, diastolic, and pulse pressure. Baseline selenium concentrations in the highest quartile were also associated with longitudinal decreases in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, while null associations were observed with pulse pressure. In exploratory analyses, the combination of mid-range manganese and high selenium concentrations completely offset lead-associated increases in blood and pulse pressure. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate a direct, linear association of lead exposure with systolic blood pressure, and manganese and selenium exposures within certain ranges may have a blood pressure-lowering effect in this population.
30208815	Ascorbic Acid	Hematologic Diseases	1	0	0	0		Massive oxidative haemolysis and renal failure caused by high dose vitamin C.	
28084261	Bevacizumab	Sinus Thrombosis, Intracranial	1	0	0	0		Dural venous sinus thrombosis following intravitreal bevacizumab.	
30928983	Ranibizumab	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Same-Day Bilateral Intravitreal Anti-Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Injections: Experience of a Large Canadian Retina Center.	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the outcomes and complications of bilateral same-day intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) injections. METHODS: This is a single-center, retrospective study that included 524 eyes of 262 patients who received concomitant bilateral intravitreal anti-VEGF injections in 2016 at St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto. If any of the patients were receiving simultaneous bilateral injections on a regular basis prior to 2016, data pertaining to previous injections were also reviewed. Everyone received bevacizumab, ranibizumab, or aflibercept in an office setting. RESULTS: A total of 9,798 intravitreal anti-VEGF injections (4,899 bilateral injection sessions) were performed in 524 eyes of 262 patients. The average number of bilateral injection sessions per patient was 18.7 +/- 14.1. Ranibizumab was the most commonly used anti-VEGF drug (83.8%). The incidence of endophthalmitis was 0.01%, and there were 2 episodes of acute intraocular inflammation among the 9,798 injections (0.02%). All 3 cases occurred after treatment with ranibizumab. There were 2 deaths (0.76%) due to nonvascular causes but no vascular related systemic adverse events were reported. CONCLUSIONS: Same-day bilateral intravitreal anti-VEGF injections present a low rate of complications and are well tolerated by patients. This safe practice may reduce the burden on the health-care system and on the patients.
30628012	Calcium	Atherosclerosis	1	0	0	0		Calcium and vitamin D supplement intake may increase arterial stiffness in systemic lupus erythematosus patients.	OBJECTIVES: Low serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) have been associated with a higher frequency of risk factors and cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study is to evaluate the association of 25(OH)D, cardiovascular risk factors, and subclinical atherosclerosis in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients. METHOD: Forty-seven female SLE patients were studied. Data collected included demographics, SLE activity, disease damage, cardiovascular risk factors, and markers of subclinical atherosclerosis. Patient treatments and vitamin D and calcium supplementation (VitD-Ca) were recorded. Vitamin D deficiency was defined as serum 25(OH)D < 50 nmol/l measured by ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography. Atherosclerosis was assessed by measuring the carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (PWV) by Doppler velocimetry and intima-media thickness (IMT) by B-mode ultrasound scanning. RESULTS: 61.7% of patients were vitamin D deficient with a mean level of 31.91 +/- 10.21 nmol/l. Serum vitamin D concentration was significantly higher in the 23 patients taking VitD-Ca supplements than that in patients not supplemented (p = 0.004). No significant association was found between 25(OH)D serum levels and cardiovascular risk factors, disease activity, or different treatments for SLE. A significant positive correlation was found between 25(OH)D levels, PWV (p = 0.02), and IMT (p = 0.01); moreover, patients taking VitD-Ca supplements presented an increased arterial stiffness. CONCLUSION: Patients with arterial stiffness showed higher levels of serum vitamin D and most of them were on VitD-Ca supplements. Although prospective studies with a larger number of patients and follow-up are needed, our findings suggest that VitD-Ca supplementation may have effects on SLE patients' arterial stiffness.
29215388	Sildenafil Citrate	Arteritis	1	0	0	0		Case of Bilateral Sequential Nonarteritic Ischemic Optic Neuropathy After Rechallenge With Sildenafil.	
29177990	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Atomoxetine-induced hyperadrenergic postural tachycardia syndrome: a case report.	
28730797	Cetuximab	Ileal Diseases	1	0	0	0		Ileal perforation following cetuximab and FOLFIRI chemotherapy in a patient with ascending colon cancer with peritoneal carcinomatosis.	
28730797	Cetuximab	Intestinal Perforation	1	0	0	0		Ileal perforation following cetuximab and FOLFIRI chemotherapy in a patient with ascending colon cancer with peritoneal carcinomatosis.	
30898959	Etanercept	Myelitis, Transverse	1	0	0	0		Iatrogenic transverse myelitis in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.	We report the case of a 59-year-old Arab woman who was presented with acute onset of neck pain followed by quadriparesis, paraesthesias of lower limbs and incontinence of urine. Examination revealed asymmetric sensorimotor quadriparesis with sensory level at T1, establishing a clinical diagnosis of transverse myelitis. Cervical and thoracic spinal MRI showed enhancing T2/fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) hyperintense lesion extending from C4 to C7 level in addition to long-segment lesion extending the whole of the spinal cord. She was known to have rheumatoid arthritis for the past 20 years and has been on etanercept for the past 8 years and methotrexate since past 3 years. Etanercept was stopped and she was treated with methylprednisolone followed by oral steroids and physiotherapy with which she had near complete recovery.
30830893	Methotrexate	Alopecia Areata	1	1	0	0	0.0	The influence of methotrexate on hair loss while using immunomodulatory doses.	Hair loss is a significant and constantly growing social problem among both women and men. Many drugs through their toxic effects on the cells of the hair follicle matrix have an influence on mitotic divisions and the hair growth cycle, leading to anagen or telogen effluvium. Currently, there are more and more publications and clinical studies evaluating the possibility of using methotrexate in the treatment of various types of non-scarring and scarring alopecia, but there is no study of the effect relating to the hair loss with low doses of the drug in other therapeutic indications. AIM: The aim of the study was to evaluate if methotrexate used in immunomodulatory doses could cause increased hair loss. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from a survey was analyzed in 68 patients treated with methotrexate at the Department of Dermatology of the Jagiellonian University in Cracow in the years 2015-2018. RESULTS: Increased hair loss after the beginning of methotrexate administration occurred in 29,4% of the subjects, the majority (60%) were women. More frequent occurrence of general symptoms was perceived among the patients who reported alopecia. CONCLUSIONS: Studied group of patients was relatively small, however, it seems that drug hair loss during methotrexate treatment occurs relatively often.
30765674	Epirubicin	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	1	0	0	0.0	[A Case of Drug-Induced Interstitial Lung Disease Associated with Epirubicin and Cyclophosphamide Therapy before Operation].	We report the case of a 60-year-old woman with right breast cancer. Approximately 18 years had passed since the treatment for left breast cancer without recurrence. She became aware of the right breast tumor with mild pain 5 months before she came to the hospital. The diagnosis was right-sided breast cancer, cT2N0M0, StageⅡA, ER(-), PgR(-), HER2(-). Neoadjuvant chemotherapy was chosen, and then combined treatment with epirubicin(EPI)and cyclophosphamide(CPA) was started. The breast tumor had become smaller, but she complained of shortness of breath during the third course of chemotherapy. On the basis of her history of cancer onset, chest CT findings, and increase in serum SP-D levels, the combined therapy with EPI and CPA was suspected as the cause of the drug-induced interstitial lung disease(DILD). For this reason, the therapy was discontinued. After her recovery from this state, the operation(partial mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy)was performed. S-1 was used as postoperative adjuvant therapy, and the respiratory symptoms did not recur or worsen. On the basis of the disease course, we made a diagnosis of DILD with EPI and CPA. Many anticancer drugs may cause DILD. In case of a suspicion of DILD onset, a prompt diagnosis and an appropriate treatment are important.
30675824	Nicotine	Pulmonary Fibrosis	0	1	0	0		CB2R agonist prevents nicotine induced lung fibrosis.	INTRODUCTION: Nicotine stimulates fibroblast proliferation while increasing inflammation and fibrosis of tissues. The cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) is mainly located in the CNS, while cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2R) is located in the immune cells within the body. CB2R regulates inflammatory processes and fibroblast function. PURPOSE: We investigated the impact of CB2R agonist, JWH 133 and the antagonist, AM630 on lung tissue, applied directly before nicotine application. MATERIAL AND METHODS: 40 mice were placed into 4 groups. The experimental groups received nicotine intraperitoneally at a dose of 0.05 mg/kg of body weight (BW) for 14 days. Group B also received AM630 (0.5mg/kg of BW), while Group A was administered with JWH133 (1 mg/kg of BW). Group N received nicotine alone. The Control group C received 0.9% NaCl. After decapitation, lung tissues were stained with H&E, Trichrome Masson's method, and IHC against CTGF and alpha-SMA. The digital image processing system Image J with the IHC profiler plugins was then employed, optical density and IHC optical density score were calculated. RESULTS: In the N group, an increase in the thickness of alveolar spaces (9.16 SD4.95microm vs. 4.77SD2.99microm in the C group), leukocytes infiltration and collagen deposition has been observed(OD: 0.20 SD0.0vs 0.07SD0.04 in the C group). In the B group, the alveolar space thickness has been the highest (11.57SD8.13microm). Furthermore, in this group, hyperaemia, destruction of lung structure, hyperplasia of II type pneumocyte and interstitial fibrosis has been observed (OD: 0.23 SD0.08). In contrast, the lung tissue of the A group has had normal structure and the thinnest alveolar septum (3.88 SD2.64microm). The expression of CTGF and alpha-SMA has been the highest in the B group. CONCLUSION: Nicotine induces interstitial lung fibrosis that is enhanced by the CB2R antagonist and diminished by the CB2R agonist. Therefore, the CB2R agonist may offer a protection against fibrosis.
30638089	Triolein	Lung Diseases	1	0	0	0		Evidence for angiotensin mediation of the late histopathological effects of pulmonary fat embolism: Protection by losartan in a rat model.	PURPOSE: In a model of fat embolism using triolein-treated rats, we have reported that the acute pulmonary histopathological changes at 48 hrs were ameliorated by the angiotensin AT1 receptor blocker losartan, the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril, and the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren. Although much of the pathology had declined by 3 weeks, the changes persisted at 6 weeks. The purpose of the study was to extends the time course investigation to 10 weeks and to examines whether the fat embolism effects continue to be blocked by losartan when given at a late time period. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Unanesthetized rats were challenged with i.v. triolein or saline. After 6 weeks, one group received saline or losartan i.p. and the losartan group also received losartan in the drinking water. At 10 weeks, the experiment was terminated. RESULTS: Confirming previous results, the fat embolism group showed normal weight gain at 6 weeks without apparent distress and also appeared normal at 10 weeks. However, at 10 weeks the lungs showed inflammatory and fibrotic changes that were greater than those found at 6 weeks. These changes were reduced by losartan. CONCLUSIONS: These findings show that the effects of fat embolism continue to progress to 10 weeks after the initial insult with triolein. The fact that the protective effects of losartan treatment started at 6 weeks supports the involvement of the renin-angiotensin system in late as well as early stages of the histopathological changes following fat embolism. It also supports the use of angiotensin blockade in clinical situations even long after an initial trauma where fat embolism is suspected.
30217583	Hydroxocobalamin	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Hydroxocobalamin for the Treatment of Vasoplegia: A Review of Current Literature and Considerations for Use.	
30217583	Vitamin B Complex	Exanthema	0	0	0	0		Hydroxocobalamin for the Treatment of Vasoplegia: A Review of Current Literature and Considerations for Use.	
30217583	Vitamin B Complex	Hypertension	0	0	0	0		Hydroxocobalamin for the Treatment of Vasoplegia: A Review of Current Literature and Considerations for Use.	
29903887	Melphalan	Thrombosis	1	0	0	0		Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis during high dose melphalan and autologous stem cell transplantation.	
29853315	Adenosine Monophosphate	Thrombocytopenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	The Use of Cangrelor and Heparin for Anticoagulation in a Patient Requiring Pulmonary Thromboendarterectomy Surgery with Suspected Heparin-Induced Thrombocytopenia.	The management of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) in the perioperative period for patients undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) can be a challenging clinical scenario. Once a diagnosis of HIT has been established, heparin products typically are avoided and alternative therapies for anticoagulation are started. Alternative anticoagulation strategies for CPB are limited and often have various pharmacokinetic profiles that may lead to increased perioperative bleeding. Historically the use of a GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor, such as tirofiban, followed by unfractionated heparin (UFH) is the typical alternative for surgeries requiring DHCA in patients with HIT at the authors' institution. This article presents a case in which cangrelor followed by UFH was used in a 20-year-old patient with suspected HIT and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension undergoing pulmonary thromboendarterectomy surgery requiring CPB and DHCA. Due to the frequency of significant postoperative bleeding encountered when using tirofiban and UFH, it was decided to attempt to block platelet aggregation with significantly shorter-acting cangrelor. The authors hypothesized that cangrelor would reduce the risk of significant bleeding compared with tirofiban because of its favorable pharmacokinetics. Specifically, cangrelor has a short elimination half-life of 3 to 6 minutes, and its elimination is not altered by renal and hepatic impairment. This case report discusses the pathophysiology of HIT, the alternative anticoagulants used for HIT type II in pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, and the potential of cangrelor in conjunction with UFH to be a favorable option for patients in similar clinical scenarios.
29761242	Febuxostat	Kidney Calculi	0	0	0	0		Safety and Efficacy of Benzbromarone and Febuxostat in Hyperuricemia Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease: A Prospective Pilot Study.	BACKGROUND: To compare the safety and efficacy of benzbromarone and febuxostat in hyperuricemia patients with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 20-60 mL/min/1.73 m(2). METHODS: This study was a single-centered, parallel-grouped, randomized clinical trial (RCT). We randomly assigned hyperuricemia participants with eGFR 20-60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) into benzbromarone and febuxostat treatment group. Drugs were adjusted by titration from small doses. RESULTS: Seventy-three eligible participants enrolled, 66 subjects (33 in each group) were included finally for analysis. When compared to baseline, serum uric acid (SUA) decreased significantly after treatment in both groups, but no differences were detected among all the follow-up points. After 12-month treatment, eGFR did not have significant change in both groups. In the benzbromarone group, kidney stones in one case increased in quantity. In the febuxostat group, kidney stones in one case became smaller in size and in two cases vanished completely. Both drugs did not increase myocardial enzymes significantly after the treatment. In addition, hemoglobin increased significantly in the two groups (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Benzbromarone and febuxostat could reduce SUA and maintain renal function in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with eGFR 20-60 mL/min/1.73 m(2). Urate-lowering therapy with benzbromarone or febuxostat could increase serum hemoglobin level and potentially improve anemia.
29111793	Nitrofurantoin	Intracranial Hypertension	1	0	0	0		Rapid onset intracranial hypertension in a young woman after starting nitrofurantoin.	
28540910	Rituximab	Urticaria	1	1	0	0	1.0	Rituximab-induced urticarial dermatitis during the treatment of membranous nephropathy.	Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody directed against B cells and is being increasingly used for various renal indications. Acute dermatologic manifestations such as urticaria are well known to occur during rituximab infusion. Here, we report the case of a 53- year-old female who was treated with rituximab for membranous nephropathy and developed an exanthematous rash, which progressed with a further dose of rituximab and was diagnosed as urticarial dermatitis. A review of literature showed that urticarial dermatitis following rituximab therapy has been seldom reported and identification of this complication is very important to avoid giving further doses and thus, increasing the severity of lesions.
28540903	Tolterodine Tartrate	Hyponatremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Recurrent syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion due to tolterodine in an elderly male patient.	Hyponatremia is defined as serum sodium of <135 mmol/L and equates with a low serum osmolality once translocational hyponatremia and pseudohyponatremia are ruled out. True hyponatremia develops when normal urine-diluting mechanisms are disturbed. In elderly patients, this complication is not uncommon, especially in nursing homes and assisted living facilities. Medications are often the most common cause of hyponatremia in these patients. Herewith, we reported a 65-year-old Saudi male, a known case of benign prostatic hypertrophy and hypertension, who developed recurrent hyponatremia secondary to tolterodine. To our knowledge, this is the fifth case reported in literature of such association.
28540903	Tolterodine Tartrate	Inappropriate ADH Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Recurrent syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion due to tolterodine in an elderly male patient.	Hyponatremia is defined as serum sodium of <135 mmol/L and equates with a low serum osmolality once translocational hyponatremia and pseudohyponatremia are ruled out. True hyponatremia develops when normal urine-diluting mechanisms are disturbed. In elderly patients, this complication is not uncommon, especially in nursing homes and assisted living facilities. Medications are often the most common cause of hyponatremia in these patients. Herewith, we reported a 65-year-old Saudi male, a known case of benign prostatic hypertrophy and hypertension, who developed recurrent hyponatremia secondary to tolterodine. To our knowledge, this is the fifth case reported in literature of such association.
27878882	Tamoxifen	Angioedema	1	0	0	0		Tamoxifen may cause life-threatening angioedema attacks in patients with hereditary angioedema.	
30654246	Alemtuzumab	Exanthema	0	0	0	0		Single-arm study to assess comprehensive infusion guidance for the prevention and management of the infusion associated reactions (IARs) in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients treated with alemtuzumab (EMERALD).	BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab is a humanized IgG monoclonal antibody approved in more than 60 countries for patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). In phase 2 and 3 clinical trials (CAMMS223 (NCT00050778), CARE-MS I (NCT00530348), and CARE-MS II (NCT00548405)), patients receiving alemtuzumab demonstrated significantly greater improvements on clinical and MRI outcomes versus SC IFNbeta-1a; mild to moderate infusion-associated reactions (IARs) were the most frequently reported adverse events (AEs) associated with alemtuzumab. EMERALD (NCT02205489) was a phase 4, multicenter, multinational, single-arm study designed to assess an algorithm for the prevention and management of IARs in RRMS patients treated with alemtuzumab. METHODS: Patients were treated with a study regimen of enhanced IAR prophylaxis relative to phase 2 and 3 studies. H(1) and/or H(2) antagonists or equivalent gastroprotection (proton pump inhibitors) were given 1 day before alemtuzumab infusion, 1 h prior to the infusion, and post-infusion. Methylprednisolone was given orally 1 day before infusion, 1 h prior to the infusion, and as needed post-infusion. Antipyretics were given 1 h before infusion and as needed post-infusion. Anti-emetics and normal saline were given as needed during and post-infusion. RESULTS: Of the 61 patients screened, 58 (95.1%) were enrolled into the study. Of the 58 patients who received the first infusion of Period 1, 57 (98.3%) completed the 5 days of Course 1. A total of 54 patients received the first infusion of Period 2 and 53 completed the 3-day course. All patients (n = 58) completed the Month 6 visit and 54 the Month 12 visit. 93.1% of patients had at least one IAR (91.4% in Period 1 and 81.5% in Period 2), the majority of which were grade 1 (69.1%) or grade 2 (28.0%). The three most common IARs of headache, pyrexia, and rash occurred in 48.8%, 40.7%, and 24.1% of patients during the first course and 14.8%, 17.2%, and 5.6% of patients during the second course, respectively. The majority of IARs occurred within 6 h after the start of alemtuzumab infusion, with a peak during the first 2 h. The types and overall incidence of IARs were consistent with phase 2 and 3 trials. Frequency and distribution of rash were reduced in the EMERALD study compared with previous clinical trials. Serious IARs occurred in 15.5%, a higher rate than reported in clinical trials of alemtuzumab. CONCLUSION: Although most alemtuzumab-treated patients experienced IARs as in previous controlled clinical studies, there was an improvement in the frequency and distribution of alemtuzumab-associated rash, which may have been associated with this study's prophylaxis regimen.
30612830	Dexamethasone	Arthritis, Infectious	0	0	0	0		The Effects of Peri-Operative Dexamethasone on Patients Undergoing Total Hip or Knee Arthroplasty: Is It Safe for Diabetics?	BACKGROUND: Peri-operative dexamethasone has been shown to effectively reduce post-operative nausea and vomiting and aide in analgesia after total joint arthroplasty (TJA); however, systemic glucocorticoid therapy has many adverse effects. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of dexamethasone on prosthetic joint infection (PJI) and blood glucose levels in patients undergoing TJA. METHODS: A retrospective chart review of all patients receiving primary TJA from 2011 to 2015 (n = 2317) was conducted. Patients were divided into 2 cohorts: dexamethasone (n = 1426) and no dexamethasone (n = 891); these groups were subdivided into diabetic and non-diabetic patients. The primary outcome was PJI; secondary measures included glucose levels and pre-operative hemoglobin A1c (A1c) values. Statistics were carried out using logistic and regression models. RESULTS: Of the 2317 joints, 1.12% developed PJI; this was not affected by dexamethasone (P = .166). Diabetics were found to have higher rate of infection (P < .001); however, diabetics who received dexamethasone were not found to have a significantly higher infection rate that non-diabetics (P = .646). Blood glucose levels were found to increase post-operatively, and dexamethasone did not increase this change (P = .537). Diabetes (P < .001) and increasing hemoglobin A1c (P < .001) were also associated with increased serum glucose levels; however, this was not influenced by dexamethasone (P = .595). CONCLUSION: Although diabetic patients were found to have a higher infection rate overall, this was not affected by administration of intravenous dexamethasone, nor was the post-operative elevation in serum glucose levels. In this study population, peri-operative intravenous dexamethasone did not increase the rate of PJI and was safe to administer in patients undergoing TJA.
30612830	Dexamethasone	Prosthesis-Related Infections	0	0	0	0		The Effects of Peri-Operative Dexamethasone on Patients Undergoing Total Hip or Knee Arthroplasty: Is It Safe for Diabetics?	BACKGROUND: Peri-operative dexamethasone has been shown to effectively reduce post-operative nausea and vomiting and aide in analgesia after total joint arthroplasty (TJA); however, systemic glucocorticoid therapy has many adverse effects. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of dexamethasone on prosthetic joint infection (PJI) and blood glucose levels in patients undergoing TJA. METHODS: A retrospective chart review of all patients receiving primary TJA from 2011 to 2015 (n = 2317) was conducted. Patients were divided into 2 cohorts: dexamethasone (n = 1426) and no dexamethasone (n = 891); these groups were subdivided into diabetic and non-diabetic patients. The primary outcome was PJI; secondary measures included glucose levels and pre-operative hemoglobin A1c (A1c) values. Statistics were carried out using logistic and regression models. RESULTS: Of the 2317 joints, 1.12% developed PJI; this was not affected by dexamethasone (P = .166). Diabetics were found to have higher rate of infection (P < .001); however, diabetics who received dexamethasone were not found to have a significantly higher infection rate that non-diabetics (P = .646). Blood glucose levels were found to increase post-operatively, and dexamethasone did not increase this change (P = .537). Diabetes (P < .001) and increasing hemoglobin A1c (P < .001) were also associated with increased serum glucose levels; however, this was not influenced by dexamethasone (P = .595). CONCLUSION: Although diabetic patients were found to have a higher infection rate overall, this was not affected by administration of intravenous dexamethasone, nor was the post-operative elevation in serum glucose levels. In this study population, peri-operative intravenous dexamethasone did not increase the rate of PJI and was safe to administer in patients undergoing TJA.
29396698	Denosumab	Osteoporotic Fractures	1	1	0	0	0.0	Vertebral Fractures Following Denosumab Discontinuation in Patients with Prolonged Exposure to Bisphosphonates.	Denosumab (DMAB) efficacy for treatment of osteoporosis was demonstrated in a pivotal trial with a reduction in vertebral and hip fractures during 3 years, and fracture risk reduction was sustained up to 10 years in an extension study. DMAB causes potent yet reversible inhibition of bone resorption. Bone density declines rapidly upon discontinuation and bone turnover markers increase above baseline in a rebound fashion. Spontaneous multiple vertebral fractures after DMAB discontinuation were recently reported. Prior treatment with bisphosphonates (BP) was postulated to decrease the risk for this alarming phenomenon. We aimed to describe our experience of fractures following DMAB withdrawal with special attention to past history of osteoporosis treatment. A phone survey of physicians engaged in bone metabolism from nine hospitals in Israel was performed. Clinical data of the patients presenting with vertebral fractures upon DMAB discontinuation were summarized and compared to the previously published cases. Nine elderly (74.2 +/- 5.3 years) female patients were identified. Most patients had a prolonged prior exposure to BP (7.4 +/- 3.2 years). All but one sustained osteoporotic fractures prior to DMAB initiation and their FRAX scores were high. Thirty-six vertebral fractures were identified in nine patients. Eight patients presented with multiple fractures, and most fractures were spontaneous. In line with the previous reports, the timing and severity of the fractures raise concern of DMAB discontinuation effect. Prolonged BP exposure in most of our patients challenges the protective effect hypothesis. Care providers, patients, and regulatory authorities should be aware of the possible risk of DMAB treatment interruption.
30372553	Acitretin	Photosensitivity Disorders	1	0	0	0		Actinic lichen planus triggered by drug photosensitivity.	
30008071	Docetaxel	Cognition Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Chemotherapy-Induced Cognitive Impairment Is Associated with Cytokine Dysregulation and Disruptions in Neuroplasticity.	"Chemotherapy-induced cognitive impairment, often referred to as ""chemobrain,"" is a common side effect. In this study, mice received three intraperitoneal injections of a combination of docetaxel, adriamycin, and cyclophosphamide (DAC) at 2-day intervals. A water maze test was used to examine cognitive performance, and manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) was used to examine hippocampal neuronal activity. The whole brain, prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and blood samples were then collected for cytokine measurement. The DAC-treated mice displayed a significantly shorter duration spent in and fewer entries into the target quadrant of the water maze than the control mice and a pronounced decrease in MEMRI signal intensity in the hippocampal subregions. In a separate experiment using in vivo transcranial two-photon imaging, DAC markedly eliminated dendritic spines without changing the rate of spine formation, leading to a striking loss of spines in the medial prefrontal cortex. DAC treatment resulted in significant elevations in the levels of the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and in significant decreases in the levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and IL-10 in most of the sera and brain tissues examined. The IL-6 and TNF-alpha levels of several sera and brain tissues showed strong inverse correlations with the duration and number of entries in the target quadrant of the water maze and with the hippocampal MEMRI signal intensity, but also showed striking positive correlations with spine elimination and loss. These results indicate that chemobrain is associated with cytokine dysregulation and disrupted neuroplasticity of the brain."
31304935	Telbivudine	Acidosis, Lactic	1	1	0	0	1.0	[A case of telbivudine-related fatal lactic acidosis and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome].	The incidence of telbivudine-related adverse reactions has been gradually increased. The increased levels of muscle enzymes and blood lactate are common. In this case, a 23-year-old male patient with long-term oral telbivudine had a rare serious adverse reaction. The main clinical manifestations were progressive myalgia, gradually progressed to mental disorder, and together with multiple organ dysfunction, in which the level of blood lactate was increased significantly and metabolic acidosis was extremely severe. Blood purification and sodium bicarbonate were given to correct acidosis, while ceftazidime was used to prevent infection. Telbivudine was discontinued, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and liver protective drug were used. The patient was discharged with a better health condition. Such patients are easily misdiagnosed as neuromuscular diseases in the early stage, which might delay the treatment and worsen medical conditions. Clinicians need to be cautious and obtain an early identification to avoid misdiagnosis.
30929065	Amiodarone	Tachycardia, Ectopic Junctional	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cardiovascular Collapse with Intravenous Amiodarone in Children: A Multi-Center Retrospective Cohort Study.	OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of cardiovascular collapse in children receiving intravenous (IV) amiodarone and to identify the population at risk. DESIGN: A multicenter study of patients </= 18 years of age who received intravenous amiodarone between January 2005 and December 2015. A retrospective analysis was performed to identify patients who developed cardiovascular collapse (bradycardia and/or hypotension). RESULTS: Of 456 patients who received amiodarone, cardiovascular collapse occurred in 47 patients (10%). Patient risk factors for collapse in a univariate analysis were as follows: age < 3 months (p = 0.04), depressed cardiac function (p < 0.001), blood pressure below 3rd percentile (p < 0.001), high lactate at baseline (p < 0.001). Administration risk factors included bolus administration (p = 0.04), and bolus administration over </= 20 min (p = 0.04). In multivariate analysis, age, baseline blood pressure less than 3rd percentile, and rapid bolus delivery were independent risk factors for cardiovascular collapse in the study group. The mortality rate was significantly higher in the collapse group (28% versus 8%). CONCLUSION: We found an association between IV amiodarone administration and the risk of developing cardiovascular collapse in a significant subset of children. Extreme caution and careful hemodynamic monitoring is recommended when using IV amiodarone in this population, especially in young infants, hemodynamically compromised patients, and in patients receiving rapid amiodarone bolus administration.
30871552	Tamsulosin	Erectile Dysfunction	0	0	0	0		Meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of combination of tamsulosin plus dutasteride compared with tamsulosin monotherapy in treating benign prostatic hyperplasia.	BACKGROUND: We performed a meta-analysis to confirm the efficacy and safety of the combination of tamsulosin plus dutasteride compared with tamsulosin monotherapy in treating benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) during a treatment cycle of at least 1 year. METHODS: Randomized controlled trials were searched by using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register. Systematic review was carried out using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses. The data was evaluated and statistically analyzed by using RevMan version 5.3.0. RESULTS: Five studies including 4348 patients were studied. The analysis found that the combination group was significantly greater effect in international prostate symptom score (mean difference [MD], - 1.43; 95% confidence interval [CI], - 2.20 to - 0.66; P = 0.0003), prostate volume (MD, - 10.13; 95% CI, - 12.38 to - 7.88; P < 0.00001), transitional zone volume (MD, - 3.18; 95% CI, - 3.57 to - 2.79; P<0.0001), maximum urine flow rate (MD, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.82 to 1.29; P < 0.00001), prostate specific antigen (MD, - 0.54; 95% CI, - 0.80 to - 0.29; P < 0.0001) and post-void residual volume (MD, - 3.85; 95% CI, - 4.95 to - 2.76; P < 0.00001) compared with the tamsulosin group. In terms of safety, including adverse events (odds ratio [OR], 2.06; 95% CI, 1.34 to 3.17; P = 0.001), erectile dysfunction (OR, 2.24; 95% CI, 1.73 to 2.92; P < 0.00001), ejaculation disorder (OR, 3.37; 95% CI, 1.97 to 5.79; P < 0.0001), retrograde ejaculation (OR, 2.30; 95% CI, 1.08 to 4.93; P = 0.03), decreased libido (OR, 2.25; 95% CI, 1.53 to 3.31; P < 0.0001) and loss of libido (OR, 3.38; 95% CI, 1.94 to 5.88; P<0.0001), the combination group showed poor tolerance than the tamsulosin group with the exception of dizziness (OR, 1.16; 95% CI, 0.75 to 1.80; P = 0.50). The combination group significantly reduced the risk of clinical progression than the tamsulosin group especially in incidence of BPH-related symptom progression (OR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.46 to 0.67; P < 0.00001) and acute urinary retention (OR, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.98; P = 0.04). CONCLUSION: The combination of tamsulosin plus dutasteride provides a preferable therapeutic effect for BPH with a higher incidence of sexual side effects, but combination-therapy can markedly reduce risk of BPH-related symptom progression and acute urinary retention relative to tamsulosin monotherapy.
27987319	Capecitabine	Genital Diseases, Male	1	0	0	0		Unusual scrotal and penile ulcerations together with palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome in a patient with metastatic colon carcinoma treated with capecitabine.	
27987319	Capecitabine	Skin Ulcer	1	0	0	0		Unusual scrotal and penile ulcerations together with palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome in a patient with metastatic colon carcinoma treated with capecitabine.	
30406478	Clofazimine	Granuloma	1	1	0	0	0.0	An Expandable Mechanopharmaceutical Device (2): Drug Induced Granulomas Maximize the Cargo Sequestering Capacity of Macrophages in the Liver.	"PURPOSE: Drug-induced liver injuries (DILI) comprise a significant proportion of adverse drug reactions leading to hospitalizations and death. One frequent DILI is granulomatous inflammation from exposure to harmful metabolites that activate inflammatory pathways of immune cells of the liver, which may act as a barrier to isolate the irritating stimulus and limit tissue damage. METHODS: Paralleling the accumulation of CFZ precipitates in the liver, granulomatous inflammation was studied to gain insight into its effect on liver structure and function. A structural analog that does not precipitate within macrophages was also studied using micro-analytical approaches. Depleting macrophages was used to inhibit granuloma formation and assess its effect on drug bioaccumulation and toxicity. RESULTS: Granuloma-associated macrophages showed a distinct phenotype, differentiating them from non-granuloma macrophages. Granulomas were induced by insoluble CFZ cargo, but not by the more soluble analog, pointing to precipitation being a factor driving granulomatous inflammation. Granuloma-associated macrophages showed increased activation of lysosomal master-regulator transcription factor EB (TFEB). Inhibiting granuloma formation increased hepatic necrosis and systemic toxicity in CFZ-treated animals. CONCLUSIONS: Granuloma-associated macrophages are a specialized cell population equipped to actively sequester and stabilize cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents. Thus, drug-induced granulomas may function as drug sequestering ""organoids"" -an induced, specialized sub-compartment- to limit tissue damage."
31314188	Telbivudine	Kidney Diseases	1	0	0	0		Effects of entecavir, tenofovir and telbivudine treatment on renal functions in chronic hepatitis B patients.	BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The aim of this study was to enlighten the controversy about the renal safety of entecavir, tenofovir, and telbivudine treatments in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients by comparing these treatments in real-world conditions. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively enrolled 104 treatment-naive patients with CHB monoinfection into our study. Patients were treated with entecavir monotherapy (n=38), tenofovir monotherapy (n=35), or telbivudine monotherapy (n=31). We then compared and statistically analyzed the effects of these drugs on the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) over a 24-month follow-up period. RESULTS: In the entecavir group, time-dependent change in eGFR was not statistically significant (p = 0.357). There was a statistically significant increase in eGFR in the telbivudine group at 12 months (p<0.001) and at 24 months (p<0.001) and, in contrast, a statistically significant decrease in the tenofovir group at 12 months (p<0.001) and at 24 months (p<0.001). There was no significant relationship between entecavir and eGFR change (p = 0.763). We found that tenofovir and telbivudine were independent predictors of eGFR change (decrease in eGFR, p<0.001 and increase in eGFR, p = 0.001, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: We recommend close follow-up of renal functions, especially for patients treated with tenofovir. Telbivudine was superior to the other drugs in terms of renal function. We conclude that an individualized therapy program considering treatment efficacy and side effects is the best option for patients.
30729376	Phenprocoumon	Epistaxis	0	0	0	0		Shorter hospital stays in epistaxis patients with atrial fibrillation when taking rivaroxaban or apixaban versus phenprocoumon.	Patients taking oral anticoagulants (OACs) currently represent one-third of all patients treated for epistaxis and an upward trend is expected. New direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) have been on the market for approximately 10 years. DOACs are favoured over Vitamin K-Antagonists (VKAs) in the current guidelines. There are barely studies that investigate the impact of DOACs on patients with epistaxis. A retrospective study was performed analysing all patients who had stationary treatment for epistaxis from 01.01.2011 to 01.01.2018 in a tertiary care centre. In a total of 466 patients, 46.1% were on OACs. The main indication was atrial fibrillation (AF, 67.4%).The number of DOACs taken surpassed that of the VKAs during the past 2 years. The length of hospital stay was significantly longer in the phenprocoumon group (3 +/- 0.2 days) in comparison to both the rivaroxaban (2.3 +/- 0.1) and the apixaban (2.2 +/- 0.1) groups (p = 0.005). Posterior epistaxis occurred more frequently in the phenprocoumon group (10.8%) than in the rivaroxaban (0%) and apixaban (0%) groups (p = 0.03). A correlation between CHA(2)DS(2)-VASc score (risk score for apoplexy in patients with AF, p = 0.01), HAS-BLED score (score for assessment of major bleeding in patients taking anticoagulants with AF, p = 0.006), and length of hospital stay (p = 0.002) with recurrence of epistaxis was found. Shorter hospital stays and exclusively anterior bleeding was noted in AF patients taking rivaroxaban and apixaban, whereas AF patients taking phenprocoumon stayed in hospital longer and had more posterior bleeding.
30536809	Oxaliplatin	Anxiety	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence, severity, longitudinal trends and predictors of acute and chronic oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy in Taiwanese patients with colorectal cancer.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the longitudinal incidence, severity, pattern of changes or predictors of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy (OXAIPN) in Taiwanese patients with colorectal cancer. A longitudinal repeated measures study design was employed, and 77 participants were recruited from the colorectal and oncology departments of two teaching medical centres in Taiwan. Physical examinations were performed, and self-reports regarding adverse impacts of OXAIPN and quality of life were obtained at five time points throughout 12 cycles of chemotherapy (C/T). The incidence of OXAIPN increased with C/T cycles (31.1%-81.9%), and the upper limb numbness and cold sensitivity were most significant acute OXAIPN symptoms (29.9%-73.6%). Findings also documented significant increases in overall severity, symptom distress, interference and physical results associated with OXAIPN over the course of C/T. Predictors of OXAIPN severity varied by treatment cycle, including younger patient, higher cumulative dose of oxaliplatin, greater body surface area, receipt of chemotherapy in winter and the occurrence of OXAIPN during prior C/T cycles. The results from this study might help healthcare providers to recognise the symptom characteristics, degree of influences, trends and high-risk group of OXAIPN, facilitating early evaluation and potential interventions to mitigate or prevent negative effects of OXAIPN on patients.
30502611	Natalizumab	Abortion, Spontaneous	1	0	0	0		Natalizumab exposure during pregnancy in multiple sclerosis: a systematic review.	
30500483	Levetiracetam	Thyroid Diseases	1	0	0	0		Lipid and thyroid hormone levels in children with epilepsy treated with levetiracetam or carbamazepine: A prospective observational study.	Although previous studies have investigated the influence of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) on lipid profiles and thyroid hormone levels, there is little evidence regarding the effects of levetiracetam (LEV). Therefore, we conducted a prospective longitudinal study to evaluate the effects of LEV and carbamazepine (CBZ) treatment on lipid profile and thyroid hormone levels in patients newly diagnosed with epilepsy. Inclusion criteria were as follows: (a) age between 4 and 15 years, (b) diagnosis of epilepsy with at least two focal seizures within a year, and (c) newly treated with LEV or CBZ monotherapy. Serum lipid profile and thyroid hormone levels were measured before and after 1 and 6 months of AED initiation. Among the 21 included patients (LEV: 13 patients, CBZ: 8 patients), all but one patient in the LEV group continued AED monotherapy during the study period. Although triglyceride (TG) levels tended to be increased in the CBZ group (baseline: 58.3 +/- 22.0 mg/dl, 1 month: 63.8 +/- 21.6 mg/dl, 6 months: 92.3 +/- 63.6 mg/dl, p = 0.22, analyses of variance (ANOVA)), there were no significant changes in total cholesterol (TC), TG levels, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), or low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in either group. Serum free thyroxine (fT4) levels were significantly decreased in the CBZ group (baseline: 1.15 +/- 0.06 ng/dl, 1 month: 1.00 +/- 0.16 ng/dl, 6 months: 0.98 +/- 0.14 ng/dl, p = 0.03, ANOVA). In contrast, there were no significant changes in fT4 or thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels in the LEV group. The results of the present study suggest that LEV monotherapy does not affect lipid profile or thyroid function while CBZ monotherapy may cause thyroid dysfunction.
30355657	Norepinephrine	Hypertension, Pulmonary	0	1	0	0		Pressure-dependent NOS activation contributes to endothelial hyperpermeability in a model of acute heart failure.	Aims: Acute increases in left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) can induce pulmonary edema (PE). The mechanism(s) for this rapid onset edema may involve more than just increased fluid filtration. Lung endothelial cell permeability is regulated by pressure-dependent activation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Herein, we demonstrate that pressure-dependent NOS activation contributes to vascular failure and PE in a model of acute heart failure (AHF) caused by hypertension.Methods and results: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized and mechanically ventilated. Acute hypertension was induced by norepinephrine (NE) infusion and resulted in an increase in LVEDP and pulmonary artery pressure (P(pa)) that were associated with a rapid fall in P(a)O(2), and increases in lung wet/dry ratio and injury scores. Heart failure (HF) lungs showed increased nitrotyrosine content and ROS levels. L-NAME pretreatment mitigated the development of PE and reduced lung ROS concentrations to sham levels. Apocynin (Apo) pretreatment inhibited PE. Addition of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) to AHF rats lung lysates and pretreatment of AHF rats with folic acid (FA) prevented ROS production indicating endothelial NOS (eNOS) uncoupling.Conclusion: Pressure-dependent NOS activation leads to acute endothelial hyperpermeability and rapid PE by an increase in NO and ROS in a model of AHF. Acute increases in pulmonary vascular pressure, without NOS activation, was insufficient to cause significant PE. These results suggest a clinically relevant role of endothelial mechanotransduction in the pathogenesis of AHF and further highlights the concept of active barrier failure in AHF. Therapies targetting the prevention or reversal of endothelial hyperpermeability may be a novel therapeutic strategy in AHF.
30236502	Tirofiban	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Safety and efficacy of Tirofiban in STEMI-patients.	BACKGROUND: Tirofiban is recommended as bail out therapy in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). However, evidence regarding safety and efficacy of tirofiban is unclear. Tirofiban has been shown to improve ST-resolution, to decrease infarct size (IS) and to reduce incidence of major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE). However, bleeding is enhanced in tirofiban treated patients. In this study, we aim to investigate efficacy and safety of Tirofiban in STEMI-patients. METHODS: 610 STEMI patients were analyzed. MACCE (death, myocardial infarction [MI], stroke) and TIMI bleeding events were registered during hospital course and 12 month follow-up. RESULTS: Tirofiban patients were slightly younger (tirofiban 63 +/- 13 years vs. control 65 +/- 14 years; p = 0.04). They had higher peak-high-sensitive troponin T [Hs-TnT] (tirofiban 6561 +/- 11,065 vs. control 4594 +/- 11,200, p-value = 0.047) and peak-creatine kinase [CK] (tirofiban 2742 +/- 5097 vs. control 1416 +/- 2160, p-value < 0.0001). Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was more complex in tirofiban treated patients as radiation time (tirofiban 18 +/- 15 vs. control 14 +/- 13; p-value = 0.02) and use of contrast agent (tirofiban 240 +/- 106 vs. control 209 +/- 99; p-value = 0.01) was higher in tirofiban patients. However, there were no differences in MACCE (HR 0.877, 95% CI 0.62-1.25, p = 0.47) and bleeding (major: HR 1.494, 95% CI 0.65-3.44, p = 0.34; minor: HR 1.294, 95% CI 0.67-2.52, p = 0.45). CONCLUSION: MACCE and bleeding events were similar. However, PCI was more complex and infarcts larger in tirofiban treated patients.
29579372	Ipilimumab	Edema	1	0	0	0		Remitting Seronegative Symmetric Synovitis With Pitting Edema Associated With Partial Melanoma Response Under Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-Programmed Death 1 Combination Treatment.	
29579372	Ipilimumab	Synovitis	1	0	0	0		Remitting Seronegative Symmetric Synovitis With Pitting Edema Associated With Partial Melanoma Response Under Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-Programmed Death 1 Combination Treatment.	
29579372	Nivolumab	Edema	1	0	0	0		Remitting Seronegative Symmetric Synovitis With Pitting Edema Associated With Partial Melanoma Response Under Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-Programmed Death 1 Combination Treatment.	
29579372	Nivolumab	Synovitis	1	0	0	0		Remitting Seronegative Symmetric Synovitis With Pitting Edema Associated With Partial Melanoma Response Under Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-Programmed Death 1 Combination Treatment.	
29575671	Rituximab	Viremia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Rituximab May Cause Increased Hepatitis C Virus Viremia in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients Through Declining Exosomal MicroRNA-155.	OBJECTIVE: Several studies have shown that rituximab may enhance hepatitis C virus (HCV) activity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in modulating the host immune response in HCV infection; miRNAs can be packaged into the exosomes and then shuttled by the exosomes to aid biologic functions. However, the role of exosomal miRNAs (exo-miRNAs) in rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement remains unclear. METHODS: The association between rituximab and increased HCV activity was examined using an in vitro cell-based assay. Purified exosomes were confirmed using immunoblotting and flow cytometry and quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Exosomal miRNA-155 (exo-miR-155) levels were measured using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: In vitro data showed that B cell-derived miR-155 could inhibit HCV replication in hepatocytes through exosome transmission. Rituximab could both induce B cell depletion and affect intracellular miR-155 production as well as exo-miR-155 transmission and then enhance HCV activity in hepatocytes (P < 0.005). Serum exosome levels were increased in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with HCV infection compared with the levels in RA patients without HCV infection (P < 0.01). The exo-miR-155 levels were significantly increased in RA patients with HCV infection compared with those without infection (P < 0.01). A significantly greater decrement of exo-miR-155 expression was observed after rituximab therapy compared with those observed before therapy (P < 0.01), and hepatitis C viral loads increased simultaneously (P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Circulating exo-miR-155 levels were negatively correlated with hepatitis C viral loads and subsequently associated with rituximab-related HCV activity enhancement in RA patients. Exo-miR-155 may become a potential diagnostic biomarker or therapeutic target.
29494427	Cobicistat	Rhabdomyolysis	1	0	0	0		Fewer pills do not mean fewer drug-drug interactions: severe rhabdomyolysis on Elvitegravir/Cobicistat and statin treatment.	
29282333	Lamotrigine	Cleft Palate	1	1	0	0	0.0	Topiramate use early in pregnancy and the risk of oral clefts: A pregnancy cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To assess the relative risk of oral clefts associated with maternal use of high and low doses of topiramate during the first trimester for epilepsy and nonepilepsy indications. METHODS: This population-based study nested in the US 2000-2010 Medicaid Analytic eXtract included a cohort of 1,360,101 pregnant women with a live-born infant enrolled in Medicaid from 3 months before conception through 1 month after delivery. Oral clefts were defined as the presence of a recorded diagnosis in claims during the first 90 days after birth. Women with a topiramate dispensing during the first trimester were compared with those without any dispensing and with an active reference group of women with a lamotrigine dispensing during the first trimester. Risk ratios (RRs) were estimated with generalized linear models with fine stratification on the propensity score of treatment to control for potential confounders. Stratified analyses by indication of use and dose were conducted. RESULTS: The risk of oral clefts at birth was 4.1 per 1,000 in the 2,425 infants born to women exposed to topiramate compared with 1.1 per 1,000 in the unexposed group (RR 2.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.56-5.40). The RR among women with epilepsy was 8.30 (95% CI 2.65-26.07); among women with other indications such as bipolar disorder, it was 1.45 (95% CI 0.54-3.86). The median daily dose for the first prescription filled during the first trimester was 200 mg for women with epilepsy and 100 mg for women without epilepsy. For topiramate monotherapy, the RR for oral clefts associated with doses </=100 mg was 1.64 (95% CI 0.53-5.07) and for doses >100 mg it was 5.16 (95% CI 1.94-13.73). Results were similar when lamotrigine was used as a reference group. CONCLUSION: The increased risk of oral clefts associated with use of topiramate early in pregnancy was more pronounced in women with epilepsy, who used higher doses.
29282333	Topiramate	Cleft Palate	1	1	0	0	0.0	Topiramate use early in pregnancy and the risk of oral clefts: A pregnancy cohort study.	OBJECTIVE: To assess the relative risk of oral clefts associated with maternal use of high and low doses of topiramate during the first trimester for epilepsy and nonepilepsy indications. METHODS: This population-based study nested in the US 2000-2010 Medicaid Analytic eXtract included a cohort of 1,360,101 pregnant women with a live-born infant enrolled in Medicaid from 3 months before conception through 1 month after delivery. Oral clefts were defined as the presence of a recorded diagnosis in claims during the first 90 days after birth. Women with a topiramate dispensing during the first trimester were compared with those without any dispensing and with an active reference group of women with a lamotrigine dispensing during the first trimester. Risk ratios (RRs) were estimated with generalized linear models with fine stratification on the propensity score of treatment to control for potential confounders. Stratified analyses by indication of use and dose were conducted. RESULTS: The risk of oral clefts at birth was 4.1 per 1,000 in the 2,425 infants born to women exposed to topiramate compared with 1.1 per 1,000 in the unexposed group (RR 2.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.56-5.40). The RR among women with epilepsy was 8.30 (95% CI 2.65-26.07); among women with other indications such as bipolar disorder, it was 1.45 (95% CI 0.54-3.86). The median daily dose for the first prescription filled during the first trimester was 200 mg for women with epilepsy and 100 mg for women without epilepsy. For topiramate monotherapy, the RR for oral clefts associated with doses </=100 mg was 1.64 (95% CI 0.53-5.07) and for doses >100 mg it was 5.16 (95% CI 1.94-13.73). Results were similar when lamotrigine was used as a reference group. CONCLUSION: The increased risk of oral clefts associated with use of topiramate early in pregnancy was more pronounced in women with epilepsy, who used higher doses.
29122525	Methylprednisolone	Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy	1	0	0	0		Iatrogenic corticosteroids induced Takotsubo cardiomyopathy.	
29119798	Rivastigmine	Dystonic Disorders	1	0	0	0		A very low dose of rivastigmine-induced Pisa syndrome in a clozapine-treated patient.	
28752785	Interferon-beta	Pigmentation Disorders	1	1	1	1	1.0	Localized pigmentation disorder after subcutaneous pegylated interferon beta-1a injection.	We report the case of a 42-year-old female patient who developed peculiar skin lesions due to subcutaneous polyethylene glycol (PEG) interferon beta-1a. The dermatological examination showed hypochromic macules that had coalesced into a 10-cm-diameter patch. On the abdomen injection sites, there was a greyish diffuse hyperpigmentation arranged irregularly in annular macules. Fungal infection, vitiligo and pityriasis alba were excluded. After 6 months, the lesions had worsened. This is the first case of localized pigmentation disorder reported with interferon beta, and while the clinical findings are not ascribable to vitiligo or interferon-related facial/mucosal hyperpigmentation, they may partially share the underlining mechanisms.
28418007	Myristic Acid	Metabolic Syndrome	0	1	0	0		Saturated fatty acids induce development of both metabolic syndrome and osteoarthritis in rats.	The predominant saturated fatty acids (SFA) in human diets are lauric acid (LA, C12:0), myristic acid (MA, C14:0), palmitic acid (PA, C16:0) and stearic acid (SA, C18:0). The aim of this study was to investigate whether diets containing individual SFA together with excess simple carbohydrates induce osteoarthritis (OA)-like changes in knee joints and signs of metabolic syndrome in rats. Rats were given either a corn starch diet or a diet composed of simple carbohydrates together with 20% LA, MA, PA, SA or beef tallow for 16 weeks. Rats fed beef tallow, SA, MA or PA diets developed signs of metabolic syndrome, and also exhibited cartilage degradation and subchondral bone changes similar to OA. In contrast, replacement of beef tallow with LA decreased signs of metabolic syndrome together with decreased cartilage degradation. Furthermore, PA and SA but not LA increased release of matrix sulphated proteoglycans in cultures of bovine cartilage explants or human chondrocytes. In conclusion, we have shown that longer-chain dietary SFA in rats induce both metabolic syndrome and OA-like knee changes. Thus, diets containing SFA are strongly relevant to the development or prevention of both OA and metabolic syndrome.
28418007	Palmitic Acid	Metabolic Syndrome	0	1	0	0		Saturated fatty acids induce development of both metabolic syndrome and osteoarthritis in rats.	The predominant saturated fatty acids (SFA) in human diets are lauric acid (LA, C12:0), myristic acid (MA, C14:0), palmitic acid (PA, C16:0) and stearic acid (SA, C18:0). The aim of this study was to investigate whether diets containing individual SFA together with excess simple carbohydrates induce osteoarthritis (OA)-like changes in knee joints and signs of metabolic syndrome in rats. Rats were given either a corn starch diet or a diet composed of simple carbohydrates together with 20% LA, MA, PA, SA or beef tallow for 16 weeks. Rats fed beef tallow, SA, MA or PA diets developed signs of metabolic syndrome, and also exhibited cartilage degradation and subchondral bone changes similar to OA. In contrast, replacement of beef tallow with LA decreased signs of metabolic syndrome together with decreased cartilage degradation. Furthermore, PA and SA but not LA increased release of matrix sulphated proteoglycans in cultures of bovine cartilage explants or human chondrocytes. In conclusion, we have shown that longer-chain dietary SFA in rats induce both metabolic syndrome and OA-like knee changes. Thus, diets containing SFA are strongly relevant to the development or prevention of both OA and metabolic syndrome.
28045205	Adalimumab	Panniculitis, Lupus Erythematosus	1	0	0	0		Anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha-induced lupus erythematosus panniculitis.	
30447142	Tramadol	Parkinsonian Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Tramadol-induced parkinsonism: a case report of a 75-year-old woman.	Adverse drug reaction (ADR) is a form of unwanted reaction and is the crucial reason for illness and death. Tramadol-induced parkinsonism is a kind of ADR that occurs after the repeated intake of tramadol. Long-term exposure to tramadol has been known to induce tremor and alter the functioning of dopamine. This case report introduces a 75-year-old woman diagnosed with tramadol-induced parkinsonism due to the administration of tramadol for the treatment of post-operated (breast cancer) acute onset of severe pain on the left side of the chest. The assessment of the offending drug was carried out via Naranjo probability scale. A score of 6 was reported for this patient, defining tramadol as a probable cause of this reaction. For the management of the drug-induced parkinsonism, levodopa/carbidopa was prescribed and the symptoms related to parkinsonism resolved within a week. The age of the patient and the female gender is considered to be the main risk factor for the occurrence of such reaction. This case report is an attempt to spread awareness about the negative consequences of long-term use of tramadol in old patients. Thus, the medical practitioners must be very careful while administering tramadol to the old aged population.
30293230	Curcumin	Musculoskeletal Pain	0	0	0	0		A combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin improves pain and inflammation among early stage breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapy: results of a pilot study.	PURPOSE: Breast cancer patients receiving hormonal therapies face risks of relapse, increased rates of cardiovascular events, and toxicities of therapy such as aromatase inhibitor (AI)-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS). C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker for inflammation, is associated with breast cancer outcomes. We evaluated whether the olive-derived polyphenol hydroxytyrosol combined with omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin would reduce CRP and musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This prospective, multicenter, open-label, single arm, clinical trial enrolled post-menopausal breast cancer patients (n = 45) with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) taking predominantly aromatase inhibitors to receive a combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin for 1 month. CRP, other inflammation-associated cytokines, and pain scores on the Brief Pain Inventory were measured before therapy, at the end of therapy and 1 month after completion of therapy. RESULTS: CRP levels declined during the therapy [from 8.2 +/- 6.4 mg/L at baseline to 5.3 +/- 3.2 mg/L (p = 0.014) at 30 days of treatment], and remained decreased during the additional 1 month off therapy. Subjects with the highest baseline CRP levels had the greatest decrease with the therapy. Pain scores also decreased during the therapy. There were no significant adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin reduced inflammation as indicated by a reduction in CRP and reduced pain in patients with aromatase-induced musculoskeletal symptoms. Longer studies comparing this combination to other anti-inflammatories in larger groups of patients with clinical outcome endpoints are warranted.
30293230	Fatty Acids, Omega-3	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		A combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin improves pain and inflammation among early stage breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapy: results of a pilot study.	PURPOSE: Breast cancer patients receiving hormonal therapies face risks of relapse, increased rates of cardiovascular events, and toxicities of therapy such as aromatase inhibitor (AI)-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS). C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker for inflammation, is associated with breast cancer outcomes. We evaluated whether the olive-derived polyphenol hydroxytyrosol combined with omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin would reduce CRP and musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This prospective, multicenter, open-label, single arm, clinical trial enrolled post-menopausal breast cancer patients (n = 45) with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) taking predominantly aromatase inhibitors to receive a combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin for 1 month. CRP, other inflammation-associated cytokines, and pain scores on the Brief Pain Inventory were measured before therapy, at the end of therapy and 1 month after completion of therapy. RESULTS: CRP levels declined during the therapy [from 8.2 +/- 6.4 mg/L at baseline to 5.3 +/- 3.2 mg/L (p = 0.014) at 30 days of treatment], and remained decreased during the additional 1 month off therapy. Subjects with the highest baseline CRP levels had the greatest decrease with the therapy. Pain scores also decreased during the therapy. There were no significant adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin reduced inflammation as indicated by a reduction in CRP and reduced pain in patients with aromatase-induced musculoskeletal symptoms. Longer studies comparing this combination to other anti-inflammatories in larger groups of patients with clinical outcome endpoints are warranted.
30293230	Fatty Acids, Omega-3	Musculoskeletal Pain	0	0	0	0		A combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin improves pain and inflammation among early stage breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapy: results of a pilot study.	PURPOSE: Breast cancer patients receiving hormonal therapies face risks of relapse, increased rates of cardiovascular events, and toxicities of therapy such as aromatase inhibitor (AI)-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS). C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker for inflammation, is associated with breast cancer outcomes. We evaluated whether the olive-derived polyphenol hydroxytyrosol combined with omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin would reduce CRP and musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This prospective, multicenter, open-label, single arm, clinical trial enrolled post-menopausal breast cancer patients (n = 45) with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) taking predominantly aromatase inhibitors to receive a combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin for 1 month. CRP, other inflammation-associated cytokines, and pain scores on the Brief Pain Inventory were measured before therapy, at the end of therapy and 1 month after completion of therapy. RESULTS: CRP levels declined during the therapy [from 8.2 +/- 6.4 mg/L at baseline to 5.3 +/- 3.2 mg/L (p = 0.014) at 30 days of treatment], and remained decreased during the additional 1 month off therapy. Subjects with the highest baseline CRP levels had the greatest decrease with the therapy. Pain scores also decreased during the therapy. There were no significant adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin reduced inflammation as indicated by a reduction in CRP and reduced pain in patients with aromatase-induced musculoskeletal symptoms. Longer studies comparing this combination to other anti-inflammatories in larger groups of patients with clinical outcome endpoints are warranted.
30293230	Phenylethyl Alcohol	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		A combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin improves pain and inflammation among early stage breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapy: results of a pilot study.	PURPOSE: Breast cancer patients receiving hormonal therapies face risks of relapse, increased rates of cardiovascular events, and toxicities of therapy such as aromatase inhibitor (AI)-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS). C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker for inflammation, is associated with breast cancer outcomes. We evaluated whether the olive-derived polyphenol hydroxytyrosol combined with omega-3 fatty acids and curcumin would reduce CRP and musculoskeletal symptoms in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant hormonal therapies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This prospective, multicenter, open-label, single arm, clinical trial enrolled post-menopausal breast cancer patients (n = 45) with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) taking predominantly aromatase inhibitors to receive a combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin for 1 month. CRP, other inflammation-associated cytokines, and pain scores on the Brief Pain Inventory were measured before therapy, at the end of therapy and 1 month after completion of therapy. RESULTS: CRP levels declined during the therapy [from 8.2 +/- 6.4 mg/L at baseline to 5.3 +/- 3.2 mg/L (p = 0.014) at 30 days of treatment], and remained decreased during the additional 1 month off therapy. Subjects with the highest baseline CRP levels had the greatest decrease with the therapy. Pain scores also decreased during the therapy. There were no significant adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of hydroxytyrosol, omega-3 fatty acids, and curcumin reduced inflammation as indicated by a reduction in CRP and reduced pain in patients with aromatase-induced musculoskeletal symptoms. Longer studies comparing this combination to other anti-inflammatories in larger groups of patients with clinical outcome endpoints are warranted.
29867078	Ampicillin	Inflammation	1	1	0	0	0.0	Evidence for interplay among antibacterial-induced gut microbiota disturbance, neuro-inflammation, and anxiety in mice.	The aim of the present study was to determine whether there is the mechanistic connection between antibacterial-dependent gut microbiota disturbance and anxiety. First, exposure of mice to ampicillin caused anxiety and colitis and increased the population of Proteobacteria, particularly Klebsiella oxytoca, in gut microbiota and fecal and blood lipopolysaccharide levels, while decreasing lactobacilli population including Lactobacillus reuteri. Next, treatments with fecal microbiota of ampicillin-treated mouse (FAP), K. oxytoca, or lipopolysaccharide isolated from K. oxytoca (KL) induced anxiety and colitis in mice and increased blood corticosterone, IL-6, and lipopolysaccharide levels. Moreover, these treatments also increased the recruitment of microglia (Iba1(+)), monocytes (CD11b(+)/CD45(+)), and dendritic cells (CD11b(+)/CD11c(+)) to the hippocampus, as well as the population of apoptotic neuron cells (caspase-3(+)/NeuN(+)) in the brain. Furthermore, ampicillin, K. oxytoca, and KL induced NF-kappaB activation and IL-1beta and TNF-alpha expression in the colon and brain as well as increased gut membrane permeability. Finally, oral administration of L. reuteri alleviated ampicillin-induced anxiety and colitis. These results suggest that ampicillin exposure can cause anxiety through neuro-inflammation which can be induced by monocyte/macrophage-activated gastrointestinal inflammation and elevated Proteobacteria population including K. oxytoca, while treatment with lactobacilli suppresses it.
29570154	Isoflurane	Melanoma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Isoflurane Impacts Murine Melanoma Growth in a Sex-Specific, Immune-Dependent Manner: A Brief Report.	The impact of volatile anesthetics on cancer progression has been observed for decades, but sex differences have not been described. Male and female immune systems vary considerably, and the immune system plays an important role in limiting cancer growth. Currently, mouse models describing the impact of volatile anesthetics on cancer growth are limited to same-sex models. In this brief report, we describe a sex-specific impact of isoflurane on melanoma growth observed in wild-type but not in immune-deficient mice. Future experimental designs related to anesthesia and cancer should evaluate the biological variable of sex in a systematic manner.
29438041	Natalizumab	Pregnancy Complications	0	1	0	0		Pregnancy decision-making in women with multiple sclerosis treated with natalizumab: II: Maternal risks.	OBJECTIVE: To assess the risk of disease reactivation during pregnancy after natalizumab suspension in women with multiple sclerosis (MS). METHODS: Data of all pregnancies occurring between 2009 and 2015 in patients with MS treated with natalizumab and referring to 19 participating sites were collected and compared with those of pregnancies in untreated patients and patients treated with injectable immunomodulatory agents through a 2-factor repeated measures analysis. Predictors of disease activity were assessed through stepwise multivariable logistic regression models. RESULTS: A total of 92 pregnancies were tracked in 83 women receiving natalizumab. Among these pregnancies, 74 in 70 women resulted in live births, with a postpartum follow-up of at least 1 year, and were compared with 350 previously published pregnancies. Relapse rate during and after pregnancy was higher in women treated with natalizumab (p < 0.001). In multivariable analysis, longer natalizumab washout period was the only predictor of relapse occurrence during pregnancy (p = 0.001). Relapses in the postpartum year were related to relapses during pregnancy (p = 0.019) and early reintroduction of disease-modifying drugs (DMD; p = 0.021). Disability progression occurred in 16.2% of patients and was reduced by early reintroduction of DMD (p = 0.024). CONCLUSIONS: Taken as a whole, our findings indicate that the combination of avoiding natalizumab washout and the early resumption of DMD after delivery could be the best option in the perspective of maternal risk. This approach must take into account possible fetal risks that need to be discussed with the mother and require further investigation. CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class IV evidence that in women with MS, the risk of relapses during pregnancy is higher in those who had been using natalizumab as compared to those who had been using interferon-beta or no treatment.
31044260	Dasatinib	Angina Pectoris	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
31044260	Dasatinib	Peripheral Vascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
31044260	Imatinib Mesylate	Angina Pectoris	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
31044260	Imatinib Mesylate	Brain Ischemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
31044260	Imatinib Mesylate	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
31044260	Imatinib Mesylate	Peripheral Vascular Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Incidence and evaluation of predisposition to cardiovascular toxicity in chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice.	There is little information about cardiovascular adverse event (CV-AE) incidence in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients treated with bosutinib in the real-life practice. We identified 54 consecutive CML patients treated with bosutinib, stratified according to the Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) assessment, based on sex, age, smoking habits, systolic blood pressure, and total cholesterol levels. The 40-month cumulative incidence of CV-AEs was 25.2 +/- 8.1%. Patients with the SCORE of high-very high showed a significantly higher incidence of CV-AEs (55 +/- 12.9% vs 9 +/- 9.5%; p = 0.002). Overall, 9 CV-AEs were reported, with 2 deaths attributed to CV-AE. In conclusion, the SCORE assessment before starting treatment is helpful in identifying CV-AE high-risk patients during bosutinib treatment.
30948417	Carteolol	Asthma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Insidious-onset, non-wheezing carteolol-induced asthma in an atopic patient without asthma history.	Carteolol, a non-selective beta-antagonist with a potential risk of severe bronchial constriction in patients with asthma, is one of the most commonly prescribed medication for managing ocular pressure in glaucoma. We present a case of a 24-year-old woman with a history of atopy but no known asthma who presented an insidious onset of clinical manifestations compatible with drug-induced asthma after the initiation of carteolol for ocular hypertension control. The patient developed progressive chest tightness and dyspnoea for 2 months before the pulmonary function test revealed a positive bronchoprovocation response. She reported significant improvement of respiratory symptoms within 2 weeks after the discontinuation of carteolol, and a negative provocation response was later confirmed by repeat pulmonary function test. In conclusion, eye drops with non-selective beta-antagonising effect can induce asthmatic symptoms in patients without a previous diagnosis of asthma and should be administered with caution in patients with associated risk factors.
30747247	Ceftriaxone	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
30747247	Ceftriaxone	Factor V Deficiency	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
30747247	Ciprofloxacin	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
30747247	Levofloxacin	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
30747247	Meropenem	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
30747247	Micafungin	Autoimmune Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acquired factor V inhibitor after antibiotic treatment in a patient with pneumonia: a case report.	
29980583	Styrene	Prostatic Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Occupational exposure to benzene, toluene, xylene and styrene and risk of prostate cancer in a population-based study.	OBJECTIVES: While several monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are classified as definite or possible carcinogens to humans, little data exist on their role in prostate cancer (PCa). We examined occupational exposure to benzene, toluene, xylene (BTX) and styrene and PCa risk in a population-based case-control study in Montreal, Canada. METHODS: Cases aged </=75 years diagnosed with PCa in 2005-2009 (n=1920) and population controls frequency-matched on age (n=1989) provided detailed work histories. Experts evaluated the certainty, frequency and concentration of exposure to monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in each job lasting >/=2 years. Logistic regression estimated OR and 95% CIs for PCa risk, adjusting for potential confounders. RESULTS: Exposures to BTX were highly intercorrelated, except for durations of exposure at substantial levels. Ever exposure to any BTX was associated with overall PCa (OR 1.27, 95% CI 1.05 to 1.53), while the OR for styrene was 1.19. However, increases in risk were largely confined to low-grade tumours, with ORs of 1.33 (95%CI 1.08 to 1.64) and 1.41 (95% CI 0.85 to 2.31) for ever exposure to any BTX and styrene, respectively, and a duration response pattern for any BTX. Risks for low-grade tumours were elevated among men exposed >/=25 years at substantial levels of benzene (OR 2.32) and styrene (OR 2.44). Some cumulative exposure categories showed increased risks but without clear trends. CONCLUSION: Exposure to any BTX was associated with higher risks of overall PCa. Prolonged exposures at the substantial level to benzene and styrene increased risks of low-grade tumours. These novel findings were independent from PCa screening.
29980583	Xylenes	Prostatic Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Occupational exposure to benzene, toluene, xylene and styrene and risk of prostate cancer in a population-based study.	OBJECTIVES: While several monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are classified as definite or possible carcinogens to humans, little data exist on their role in prostate cancer (PCa). We examined occupational exposure to benzene, toluene, xylene (BTX) and styrene and PCa risk in a population-based case-control study in Montreal, Canada. METHODS: Cases aged </=75 years diagnosed with PCa in 2005-2009 (n=1920) and population controls frequency-matched on age (n=1989) provided detailed work histories. Experts evaluated the certainty, frequency and concentration of exposure to monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in each job lasting >/=2 years. Logistic regression estimated OR and 95% CIs for PCa risk, adjusting for potential confounders. RESULTS: Exposures to BTX were highly intercorrelated, except for durations of exposure at substantial levels. Ever exposure to any BTX was associated with overall PCa (OR 1.27, 95% CI 1.05 to 1.53), while the OR for styrene was 1.19. However, increases in risk were largely confined to low-grade tumours, with ORs of 1.33 (95%CI 1.08 to 1.64) and 1.41 (95% CI 0.85 to 2.31) for ever exposure to any BTX and styrene, respectively, and a duration response pattern for any BTX. Risks for low-grade tumours were elevated among men exposed >/=25 years at substantial levels of benzene (OR 2.32) and styrene (OR 2.44). Some cumulative exposure categories showed increased risks but without clear trends. CONCLUSION: Exposure to any BTX was associated with higher risks of overall PCa. Prolonged exposures at the substantial level to benzene and styrene increased risks of low-grade tumours. These novel findings were independent from PCa screening.
29581150	Cadmium	Otitis Media	0	1	0	0		Environmental cadmium exposure is associated with elevated risk of chronic otitis media in adults.	OBJECTIVES: Chronic otitis media (COM) is caused by an infection of the middle ear, although it may also be associated with environmental pollutants. Recent reports found that cadmium exposure could be toxic to middle ear cell lines, but the role of cadmium in the development of COM in humans has not been examined to date. We hypothesised that environmental cadmium exposure was associated with an increased risk of COM in the general population. METHODS: We analysed cross-sectional data for 5331 adults of 20 years of age or above, obtained from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2010-2012. We examined the association between blood cadmium levels and COM diagnosed by an otolaryngologist. RESULTS: The highest quartile group of cadmium blood concentration was associated with an OR of 3.33 (95% CI 1.78 to 7.53) for COM, after adjusting for potential confounding factors. Doubling blood cadmium concentration resulted in an OR of 1.58 (95% CI 1.19 to 2.08) for COM. These associations were robust on sensitivity analyses after excluding current smokers and former smokers and after excluding subjects with a potential history of occupational exposure to cadmium. CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study suggest that environmental cadmium exposure is associated with increased risk of COM, and further studies are warranted to understand the pathogenetic mechanism by which COM is caused by cadmium exposure.
30103684	Sirolimus	Pharyngitis	1	0	0	0		Safety and efficacy of Rapamune(R) (Sirolimus) in kidney transplant recipients: results of a prospective post-marketing surveillance study in Korea.	BACKGROUND: Few post-marketing surveillance studies have examined the safety and efficacy of Rapamune(R) (Sirolimus) in Asian countries. This study aimed to better understand safety and efficacy of Rapamune for kidney transplant recipients in the routine clinical practice setting in Korea. METHODS: This was an open-label, non-comparative, observational, prospective, multi-center, post-marketing surveillance study conducted at 15 Korean transplant centers between 31 August 2009 and 24 September 2015. The subjects were administered Rapamune as part of routine practice. The safety was monitored based on reporting of adverse events (AEs). Efficacy endpoints included acute rejection, graft function, graft survival, and patient survival. RESULTS: Rapamune was most commonly used for late conversion therapy after post-transplant 1 year and was substituted for anti-metabolites (63.6%) or calcineurin inhibitors (28.7%). The median treatment duration of Rapamune was 182 days. Among 209 subjects enrolled, AEs and adverse drug reactions (ADRs) were reported in 54.07% and 43.06% of subjects, respectively, in the safety analysis set. Most of the AEs were expected (96.21%), mild (75.83%), did not result in any action taken with regard to the study drug (72.99%), and resolved by the end of the study (75.36%). The most frequently reported AEs/ADRs were pharyngitis and diarrhea. Most of the serious AEs/ADRs occurred in one or two subjects. Unexpected ADRs of renal artery occlusion and cholangitis were reported by one subject each. The incidence of biopsy-proven acute rejection was 2.87%. At the end of the study, 99.51% of the subjects and their grafts had survived. The mean eGFR was 64.72 +/- 19.56 mL/min. CONCLUSIONS: Rapamune had an acceptable safety profile in prevention of kidney allograft rejection in Korea.
29808483	Quinacrine	Paresthesia	1	0	0	0		Is chloroquine neuromyotoxicity in a patient with refractory discoid lupus erythematosus potentiated by concomitant use of mepacrine?	
29330579	Nivolumab	Psoriasis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Initially undetected de novo psoriasis triggered by nivolumab for metastatic base of the tongue carcinoma].	Nivolumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 receptor on T cells and inhibits the interaction with the PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands on cancer cells. Thus, nivolumab has immunostimulatory properties. The known side effects of this therapy include fatigue, skin rash, dysfunction of the thyroid gland and colitis, which are explained by the immunoregulatory mechanisms of the drug. Here we report on the case of a 58-year-old man with metastatic base of tongue carcinoma who developed de novo psoriasis triggered by nivolumab. The patient was treated for months with the diagnosis of a generalized mycosis. This case highlights the importance of vigilance for unexpected cutaneous side effects during immune stimulating therapy with checkpoint inhibitors.
29209883	Prednisolone	Xanthogranuloma, Juvenile	1	1	0	0	0.0	Disseminated juvenile xanthogranuloma occurring after treatment of Langerhans cell histiocytosis: a case report.	CASE PRESENTATION: An 11-year-old boy presented with a complaint of a painful temporal mass. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a 3-cm-sized, homogeneously enhancing mass in the greater wing of the left sphenoid bone, which was diagnosed as Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH). Chemotherapy with vincristine and prednisolone was performed for 1 year. After 1 year and 11 months off treatment, he developed symptoms such as polydipsia and polyuria. Brain MRI showed thickening of the pituitary stalk with enhancement, suggestive of LCH involvement, and no recurrence in the sphenoid bone. After 4 years and 4 months off treatment, he developed multiple, subcutaneous, asymptomatic, and yellowish variable-sized papules on his face, posterior neck, and back, which were pathologically diagnosed as juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG). Brain MRI revealed multifocal enhancing skull lesions in the left parietal, right frontal, and left occipital bones, which were also diagnosed as JXG. After 5 years and 8 months off treatment, the number of variable-sized skin lesions was increased without changes in the lesions in the skull and pituitary stalk. CONCLUSION: We report a case of disseminated JXG occurring after treatment of LCH. These clinical co-presentations suggested a close relationship between their pathogenesis.
29209883	Vincristine	Xanthogranuloma, Juvenile	1	1	0	0	0.0	Disseminated juvenile xanthogranuloma occurring after treatment of Langerhans cell histiocytosis: a case report.	CASE PRESENTATION: An 11-year-old boy presented with a complaint of a painful temporal mass. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a 3-cm-sized, homogeneously enhancing mass in the greater wing of the left sphenoid bone, which was diagnosed as Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH). Chemotherapy with vincristine and prednisolone was performed for 1 year. After 1 year and 11 months off treatment, he developed symptoms such as polydipsia and polyuria. Brain MRI showed thickening of the pituitary stalk with enhancement, suggestive of LCH involvement, and no recurrence in the sphenoid bone. After 4 years and 4 months off treatment, he developed multiple, subcutaneous, asymptomatic, and yellowish variable-sized papules on his face, posterior neck, and back, which were pathologically diagnosed as juvenile xanthogranuloma (JXG). Brain MRI revealed multifocal enhancing skull lesions in the left parietal, right frontal, and left occipital bones, which were also diagnosed as JXG. After 5 years and 8 months off treatment, the number of variable-sized skin lesions was increased without changes in the lesions in the skull and pituitary stalk. CONCLUSION: We report a case of disseminated JXG occurring after treatment of LCH. These clinical co-presentations suggested a close relationship between their pathogenesis.
30968726	Alemtuzumab	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Autoimmune thyroid disease following treatment with alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis.	Alemtuzumab, an anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody, is effective in the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Common adverse effects include the development of autoimmune diseases, and Graves' disease is one of the most frequent presentations. We report here a case of alemtuzumab-induced thyroid disease in a female patient who showed a phase of thyrotoxicosis with positive anti-thyroglobulin (anti-Tg) and anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies, but a negative TSH receptor antibody, spontaneously followed by hypothyroidism. The aim is to illustrate the clinical presentation, evaluation over time, and the possibility to consider a conservative management up to the spontaneous resolution of the thyrotoxicosis. All these are intended to emphasize the importance of pretreatment screening and follow-up in the management of treatment with alemtuzumab.
30936333	Olanzapine	Priapism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Intractable acute ischaemic priapism occurring secondary to newly commenced olanzapine.	We present a case of intractable acute ischaemic priapism occurring secondary to newly commenced olanzapine. It demonstrates rapid intervention in a stepwise approach aiming to restore penile flaccidity in order to prevent chronic damage to the corpora cavernosa. After an unsuccessful conservative approach, our patient underwent two formal distal penile shunt procedures with no effective penile detumescence. Subsequently, bilateral proximal penile shunts were performed comprising a right corpus cavernosum to corpus spongiosum anastomosis and a left saphenous vein to left corpus cavernosum anastomosis. The patient remained an inpatient for observation, and detumescence was gradually achieved over several days after this procedure. However, follow-up revealed erectile dysfunction, and it was explained to the patient that he was unlikely to achieve further erections and that a penile implant was the only realistic option.
30826812	Dexmedetomidine	Colonic Pseudo-Obstruction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Acute Colonic Pseudo-Obstruction Caused by Dexmedetomidine: A Case Report and Literature Review.	BACKGROUND Acute colonic pseudo-obstruction (ACPO) is an infrequent entity characterized by non-toxic, non-mechanical, abrupt, functional dilation of the colon. Clinically patients present with abdominal distention, anxiety, severe abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. This rare entity can lead to a fatal outcome if not recognized early. A high level of suspicions is paramount for early diagnosis and prompt intervention. CASE REPORT A 50-year-old male was admitted to the intensive unit care due to acute hypoxic respiratory failure, pneumonia, and septic shock requiring mechanical ventilation and intravenous vasopressors. Two weeks after admission, his clinical course deteriorated and was complicated with acute abdominal distension, pain, and ileus. Imaging confirmed acute onset of ileus and after ruling out metabolic and infectious causes, the diagnosis of ACPO was made. Aggressive medical and surgical management resulted in a favorable outcome. CONCLUSIONS Critically ill patients on ventilator are commonly sedated; therefore, usual symptoms of ACPO can be missed or misinterpreted leading to late diagnosis with increased morbidity and mortality. Clinicians must be aware of potential harm and side effects from common sedatives used in the intensive care unit and should be current on medical literature. Alpha-2 agonists, i.e., dexmedetomidine, is increasingly been used in critical care setting and there are few reports of a possible association with ACPO. We present here a case of a patient with dexmedetomidine-induced ACPO, and we provide a review of the existing literature and pathophysiology of the condition.
30658314	Methotrexate	Plasmablastic Lymphoma	1	1	1	1	1.0	Highly aggressive plasmablastic neoplasms in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with methotrexate.	Patients with rheumatoid arthritis occasionally develop lymphoproliferative disorders. Methotrexate-associated lymphoproliferative disorders is a lymphoproliferative disease or lymphoma in patients treated with methotrexate for autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Here we report two rare cases of highly aggressive plasmablastic lymphoproliferative disorders in rheumatoid arthritis treated with methotrexate. Case 1 is a 68-year-old female patient with leukemic transformation of malignant lymphoma. She received methotrexate therapy for rheumatoid arthritis for >6 years. The patient showed rapid progressive course and died on the 2nd hospital day. After the death, we diagnosed the patient as plasmablastic lymphoma. Case 2 is an 80-year-old female patient with plasmablastic plasma cell myeloma, with a history of methotrexate treatment for rheumatoid arthritis for >5 years. Although M-protein was decreased by chemotherapy, bone marrow examination revealed the further increase of plasmablastic cells and she died 2 months later. The present cases were difficult to diagnose because proliferation of malignant plasmablasts was hardly predicted because neither lymph node enlargement nor an evident M-protein was observed. Both cases showed aggressive features and extremely poor prognosis. Clinicians should be aware of the underlying malignant plasmablastic proliferation when inexplicable inflammatory findings are observed in inactive rheumatoid arthritis patients.
30426292	Tolvaptan	Polyuria	0	0	0	0		Hydrochlorothiazide ameliorates polyuria caused by tolvaptan treatment of polycystic kidney disease in PCK rats.	BACKGROUND: Tolvaptan is an effective treatment for polycystic kidney disease (PKD), but also causes unfortunate polyuria. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) has been shown to reduce urine volume in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, raising the possibility that HCTZ could also be effective in reducing tolvaptan-induced polyuria. In this study, we examined the combined administration of HCTZ and tolvaptan. METHODS: Male PCK rats were divided into four groups of normal chow (Cont), normal chow plus tolvaptan, gavage HCTZ treatment, and tolvaptan + HCTZ. Biochemical examinations of the plasma and urine were performed as well as histological and molecular (mRNA and protein expression) analyses. RESULTS: Groups treated with tolvaptan had significantly higher 24 h urine excretion, which was significantly reduced in the tolvaptan + HCTZ group after 2 weeks. Cyst size, pERK protein expression, and Cyclin D1 mRNA expression were all significantly reduced in both the tolvaptan and tolvaptan + HCTZ groups, indicating that HCTZ did not affect the beneficial functions of tolvaptan. Notably, aquaporin 2 redistribution from the apical to intracellular domains was observed in tolvaptan-treated rats and was partially reversed in the tolvaptan + HCTZ group. The renal glomerular filtration rate was reduced in the tolvaptan + HCTZ group. Significantly lowered mRNA expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, prostaglandin E synthase 2 and renin were also found in the medulla, but not in the cortex. CONCLUSION: HCTZ reduces tolvaptan-induced polyuria without altering its beneficial effects on PKD. This novel therapeutic combination could potentially lead to better PKD treatments and improved quality of life for the affected patients.
30389125	Ipilimumab	Granuloma	1	1	1	1	1.0	Granulomatous Reaction in a Patient With Metastatic Melanoma Treated With Ipilimumab: First Case Reported With Isolated Cutaneous Findings.	Granulomatous sarcoidosis-like reactions affecting multiple organ systems at one time have infrequently been described within weeks to months after initiation of Ipilimumab. We present the first case of a 67-year-old man with isolated cutaneous granulomatous reaction involving the trunk, extremities, and face after eighteen months of treatment with ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma. This case documents the eruption of isolated cutaneous granulomatous reaction as a late treatment-related adverse effect of ipilimumab, highlighting the importance of adequate, prolonged follow-up.
30389125	Ipilimumab	Skin Diseases	1	1	1	1	1.0	Granulomatous Reaction in a Patient With Metastatic Melanoma Treated With Ipilimumab: First Case Reported With Isolated Cutaneous Findings.	Granulomatous sarcoidosis-like reactions affecting multiple organ systems at one time have infrequently been described within weeks to months after initiation of Ipilimumab. We present the first case of a 67-year-old man with isolated cutaneous granulomatous reaction involving the trunk, extremities, and face after eighteen months of treatment with ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma. This case documents the eruption of isolated cutaneous granulomatous reaction as a late treatment-related adverse effect of ipilimumab, highlighting the importance of adequate, prolonged follow-up.
30181173	Lenalidomide	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		Five-year follow-up of lenalidomide plus rituximab as initial treatment of mantle cell lymphoma.	We report 5-year follow-up of a multicenter phase 2 study of lenalidomide plus rituximab (LR) as initial treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). The regimen includes induction and maintenance with the LR doublet. Treatment was continuous until progression, with optional discontinuation after 3 years. The median age of the 38 participants was 65 years, with MCL international prognostic index scores balanced among low, intermediate, and high risk (34%, 34%, and 32%, respectively). Twenty-seven (75%) of the 36 evaluable patients completed >/=3 years of study treatment. At a median follow-up of 64 months (range, 21-78), the 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 80% and 90%, respectively, with 5-year estimated PFS and OS of 64% and 77%, respectively. During maintenance, hematologic adverse events (AEs) included asymptomatic grade 3 or 4 cytopenias (42% neutropenia, 5% thrombocytopenia, 3% anemia) and mostly grade 1 or 2 infections managed in the outpatient setting (45% upper respiratory infection, 21% urinary tract infection, 13% sinusitis, 11% cellulitis, 8% pneumonia). Nonhematologic AEs, such as constitutional and inflammatory symptoms, occurred at reduced frequency and intensity compared with induction. A peripheral blood minimal residual disease (MRD) assay (clonoSEQ) showed MRD-negative complete remission in 8 of 10 subjects who had completed >/=3 years of treatment and with available samples for analysis. With longer follow-up, LR continues to demonstrate durable responses and manageable safety as initial induction and maintenance therapy for MCL (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01472562).
30043209	Oxaliplatin	Hypesthesia	1	1	0	0	0.0	The risk factors for oxaliplatin-induced peripheral sensory neuropathy and thrombocytopenia in advanced gastric cancer.	PURPOSE: Peripheral sensory neuropathy (PSN) and thrombocytopenia are the main dose-limiting toxicities of oxaliplatin for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer (AGC). Because the risk factors for those toxicities in practice have not been clarified, we conducted this prospective study. METHODS: AGC patients who received oxaliplatin-based therapy at any of seven institutions participating in the Kyushu Medical Oncology Group were assessed after we obtained written informed consent. RESULTS: A total of 60 patients including 39 males and 21 females were examined. The median age was 66 years. The numbers of patients receiving oxaliplatin as the first, second, or third and later lines of therapy were 39, 16, and 5, respectively. An initial dose of 130, 100, or < 100 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin was administered to 12, 39, and 9 patients, respectively. S-1 or capecitabine as a concomitant drug was administered in 54 and 6 patients, respectively. In multivariate analysis, the comorbidity of diabetes mellitus was associated with >/= grade 2 thrombocytopenia (p = 0.035). No significant risk factor was associated with >/= grade 2 PSN. However, the accumulated dose of oxaliplatin exhibited a strong correlation with >/= grade 2 PSN (p = 0.0043), and the predicted accumulated dose of oxaliplatin in which 10% of patients developed >/= grade 2 PSN was 800 mg/m(2). The frequency of PSN in subsequent paclitaxel therapy in patients with >/= grade 2 or worse PSN in oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy did not increase compared to those with none or grade 1 PSN in oxaliplatin. CONCLUSION: Thrombocytopenia in AGC patients with diabetes mellitus should be carefully monitored during oxaliplatin-based therapy.
30043209	Oxaliplatin	Thrombocytopenia	1	1	0	0	0.0	The risk factors for oxaliplatin-induced peripheral sensory neuropathy and thrombocytopenia in advanced gastric cancer.	PURPOSE: Peripheral sensory neuropathy (PSN) and thrombocytopenia are the main dose-limiting toxicities of oxaliplatin for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer (AGC). Because the risk factors for those toxicities in practice have not been clarified, we conducted this prospective study. METHODS: AGC patients who received oxaliplatin-based therapy at any of seven institutions participating in the Kyushu Medical Oncology Group were assessed after we obtained written informed consent. RESULTS: A total of 60 patients including 39 males and 21 females were examined. The median age was 66 years. The numbers of patients receiving oxaliplatin as the first, second, or third and later lines of therapy were 39, 16, and 5, respectively. An initial dose of 130, 100, or < 100 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin was administered to 12, 39, and 9 patients, respectively. S-1 or capecitabine as a concomitant drug was administered in 54 and 6 patients, respectively. In multivariate analysis, the comorbidity of diabetes mellitus was associated with >/= grade 2 thrombocytopenia (p = 0.035). No significant risk factor was associated with >/= grade 2 PSN. However, the accumulated dose of oxaliplatin exhibited a strong correlation with >/= grade 2 PSN (p = 0.0043), and the predicted accumulated dose of oxaliplatin in which 10% of patients developed >/= grade 2 PSN was 800 mg/m(2). The frequency of PSN in subsequent paclitaxel therapy in patients with >/= grade 2 or worse PSN in oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy did not increase compared to those with none or grade 1 PSN in oxaliplatin. CONCLUSION: Thrombocytopenia in AGC patients with diabetes mellitus should be carefully monitored during oxaliplatin-based therapy.
29632238	Clopidogrel	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		Incidence, Predictors, and Outcomes of Acquired Thrombocytopenia After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention: A Pooled, Patient-Level Analysis of the CHAMPION Trials (Cangrelor Versus Standard Therapy to Achieve Optimal Management of Platelet Inhibition).	BACKGROUND: The influence of cangrelor on the incidence and outcomes of post-percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) thrombocytopenia is not defined. We aimed to explore the incidence, predictors, and clinical impact of thrombocytopenia after PCI in cangrelor-treated patients. METHODS AND RESULTS: This was a pooled, patient-level analysis of the CHAMPION trials (Cangrelor Versus Standard Therapy to Achieve Optimal Management of Platelet Inhibition), which compared cangrelor with clopidogrel for prevention of thrombotic complications during and after PCI. Acquired thrombocytopenia was defined as either a drop in platelet count to <100 000 after PCI or a drop of >50% between baseline and a follow-up. The main efficacy outcome was major adverse cardiac events. The primary safety outcome was noncoronary artery bypass grafting-related Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries-defined severe bleeding at 48 hours. Patients (23 783) were enrolled, and 3009 (12.7%) received a GPI (glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor). Acquired thrombocytopenia occurred in 200 patients (0.8%). The adjusted rate of major adverse cardiovascular events at 48 hours was significantly higher in patients who developed thrombocytopenia compared with those who did not (odds ratio, 3.00; 95% confidence interval, 1.89-4.69; P<0.001), as was major bleeding (odds ratio, 14.71; 95% confidence interval, 5.96-36.30; P<0.001). GPI use was the strongest independent predictor of acquired thrombocytopenia (odds ratio, 2.93; 95% confidence interval, 2.15-3.97; P<0.0001). There was no difference in the rate of acquired thrombocytopenia in patients randomized to cangrelor or clopidogrel. CONCLUSIONS: Acquired thrombocytopenia after PCI is strongly associated with substantial early morbidity and mortality, as well as major bleeding. GPI use is a significant predictor of thrombocytopenia. Cangrelor is not associated with acquired thrombocytopenia, and its clinical efficacy and safety is consistent irrespective of thrombocytopenia occurrence. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifiers: NCT00305162, NCT00385138, and NCT01156571.
29618162	Tinzaparin	Hemorrhage	0	1	0	0		Renal Impairment, Recurrent Venous Thromboembolism and Bleeding in Cancer Patients with Acute Venous Thromboembolism-Analysis of the CATCH Study.	OBJECTIVE: This article assesses the impact of renal impairment (RI) on the efficacy and safety of anticoagulation in patients with cancer-associated thrombosis from the Comparison of Acute Treatments in Cancer Hemostasis (CATCH) study (NCT01130025). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Renal function was assessed using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation in patients with cancer-associated thrombosis who received either tinzaparin (175 IU/kg) once daily or warfarin for 6 months, in an open-label, randomized, multi-centre trial with blinded adjudication of outcomes. Associations between baseline RI (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] <60 mL/min/1.73m(2)) and recurrent symptomatic or incidental venous thromboembolism (VTE), clinically relevant bleeding (CRB), major bleeding and death were assessed using Fisher's exact test. RESULTS: Baseline-centralized GFR data were available for 864 patients (96% of study population). RI was found in 131 patients (15%; n = 69 tinzaparin). Recurrent VTE occurred in 14% of patients with and 8% of patients without RI (relative risk [RR] 1.74; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.06, 2.85), CRB in 19% and 14%, respectively (RR 1.33; 95% CI 0.90, 1.98), major bleeding in 6.1% and 2.0%, respectively (RR 2.98; 95% CI 1.29, 6.90) and mortality rate was 40% and 34%, respectively (RR 1.20; 95% CI 0.94, 1.53). Patients with RI on tinzaparin showed no difference in recurrent VTE, CRB, major bleeding or mortality rates versus those on warfarin. CONCLUSION: RI in patients with cancer-associated thrombosis on anticoagulation was associated with a statistically significant increase in recurrent VTE and major bleeding, but no significant increase in CRB or mortality. No differences were observed between long-term tinzaparin therapy and warfarin.
29614517	Prasugrel Hydrochloride	Intracranial Hemorrhages	0	0	0	0		Prediction of Post-Discharge Bleeding in Elderly Patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes: Insights from the BleeMACS Registry.	BACKGROUND: A poor ability of recommended risk scores for predicting in-hospital bleeding has been reported in elderly patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). No study assessed the prediction of post-discharge bleeding in the elderly. The new BleeMACS score (Bleeding complications in a Multicenter registry of patients discharged with diagnosis of Acute Coronary Syndrome), was designed to predict post-discharge bleeding in ACS patients. We aimed to assess the predictive ability of the BleeMACS score in elderly patients. METHODS: We assessed the incidence and characteristics of severe bleeding after discharge in ACS patients aged >/= 75 years. Bleeding was defined as any intracranial bleeding or bleeding leading to hospitalization and/or red blood transfusion, occurring within the first year after discharge. We assessed the predictive ability of the BleeMACS score according to age by Fine-Gray proportional hazards regression analysis, calculating receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves and the area under the ROC curves (AUC). RESULTS: The BleeMACS registry included 15,401 patients of whom 3,376/15,401 (21.9%) were aged >/= 75 years. Elderly patients were more commonly treated with clopidogrel and less often treated with ticagrelor or prasugrel. Of 3,376 elderly patients, 190 (5.6%) experienced post-discharge bleeding. The incidence of bleeding was moderately higher in elderly patients (hazard ratio [HR], 2.31, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.92-2.77). The predictive ability of the BleeMACS score was moderately lower in elderly patients (AUC, 0.652 vs. 0.691, p = 0.001). CONCLUSION: Elderly patients with ACS had a significantly higher incidence of post-discharge bleeding. Despite a lower predictive ability in older patients, the BleeMACS score exhibited an acceptable performance in these patients.
29614517	Ticagrelor	Intracranial Hemorrhages	0	0	0	0		Prediction of Post-Discharge Bleeding in Elderly Patients with Acute Coronary Syndromes: Insights from the BleeMACS Registry.	BACKGROUND: A poor ability of recommended risk scores for predicting in-hospital bleeding has been reported in elderly patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). No study assessed the prediction of post-discharge bleeding in the elderly. The new BleeMACS score (Bleeding complications in a Multicenter registry of patients discharged with diagnosis of Acute Coronary Syndrome), was designed to predict post-discharge bleeding in ACS patients. We aimed to assess the predictive ability of the BleeMACS score in elderly patients. METHODS: We assessed the incidence and characteristics of severe bleeding after discharge in ACS patients aged >/= 75 years. Bleeding was defined as any intracranial bleeding or bleeding leading to hospitalization and/or red blood transfusion, occurring within the first year after discharge. We assessed the predictive ability of the BleeMACS score according to age by Fine-Gray proportional hazards regression analysis, calculating receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves and the area under the ROC curves (AUC). RESULTS: The BleeMACS registry included 15,401 patients of whom 3,376/15,401 (21.9%) were aged >/= 75 years. Elderly patients were more commonly treated with clopidogrel and less often treated with ticagrelor or prasugrel. Of 3,376 elderly patients, 190 (5.6%) experienced post-discharge bleeding. The incidence of bleeding was moderately higher in elderly patients (hazard ratio [HR], 2.31, 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.92-2.77). The predictive ability of the BleeMACS score was moderately lower in elderly patients (AUC, 0.652 vs. 0.691, p = 0.001). CONCLUSION: Elderly patients with ACS had a significantly higher incidence of post-discharge bleeding. Despite a lower predictive ability in older patients, the BleeMACS score exhibited an acceptable performance in these patients.
29540567	Styrene	Adenocarcinoma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Sinonasal adenocarcinoma following styrene exposure in the reinforced plastics industry.	BACKGROUND: Sinonasal adenocarcinoma is a rare disease expected to have rare causes and potential for strong risk factors as reflected by the strong association with occupational wood dust exposure. High level styrene exposure is a rare and suspected carcinogen, and this study examines the exposure-response relation between occupational styrene exposure, sinonasal adenocarcinoma and other subtypes. METHODS: We followed 73 092 styrene-exposed workers from 1968 to 2011 and identified sinonasal cancers in the Danish Cancer Registry. We modelled cumulative styrene exposure and estimated incidence rates and age, sex and wood-industry adjusted ORs. RESULTS: During 1 585 772 person-years, we observed nine cases of adenocarcinoma, corresponding to a fivefold non-significantly increased OR for estimates of high versus low cumulative styrene exposure (OR 5.11, 95% CI 0.58 to 45.12). The increased risk was confined to exposure received during the recent 15 years. The other histological subtypes showed no increased risk. CONCLUSION: This study suggests increased risk of sinonasal adenocarcinoma following styrene exposure. The observations are, however, few, confounding from wood dust exposure cannot be ruled out, and additional studies are needed before firm conclusions can be drawn.
29186639	Ribavirin	Obesity	0	1	0	0		Interferon-free cure of chronic Hepatitis C is associated with weight gain during long-term follow-up.	Background and aim The advent of direct-acting antivirals has revolutionized treatment of chronic hepatitis C with very high cure rates and excellent tolerability compared to interferon-based hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment. However, long-term effects of interferon-free cure of HCV infection on the metabolic condition of patients have not been investigated so far. Methods We investigated weight development during and after antiviral treatment of hepatitis C. In a prospective single-center cohort study, interferon-free antiviral treatment was initiated in 284 patients. Each patient's weight was monitored 1 year before the start of treatment, at baseline (BL), end of treatment (EOT), follow-up week 24 (FU24), and follow-up week 48 (FU48). Results Weight gain after HCV cure was observed in 20 %, 33 %, and 44 % of patients at EOT, FU24, and FU48, respectively. The mean overall weight change at FU48 compared to baseline was 1.45 kg (95 % CI 0.44; 2.46, p = 0.02, compared to the pretreatment period). Multivariate regression revealed age as the only factor predicting weight change at FU48 (B - 0.107, 95 % CI, - 0.202 to - 0.011, p = 0.03), while gender, cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, ribavirin, and body mass index had no influence. In the subgroup of patients younger than 60 years, mean weight gain at FU48 compared to baseline was 2.8 kg (95 % CI, 1.23 - 4.4). In contrast, patients 60 years and older had a mean weight change of - 0.04 kg (95 % CI, - 1.12 to 1.03, p = 0.005). Conclusions Cure of HCV by interferon-free antiviral treatment was associated with weight gain in up to 44 % of patients during long-term follow-up. Weight gain occurred predominantly in patients younger than 60 years. The precise mechanism of weight gain remains to be elucidated.
28853765	Rivaroxaban	Pulmonary Embolism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pulmonary embolism four days after interruption of therapy with rivaroxaban.	Thrombosis after cessation of anticoagulation, also named rebound thrombosis, is a matter of concern and controversy. There are only few published data about occurrence of rebound thrombosis associated with non-vitamin K-antagonist oral anticoagulant drugs (NOACs). We report on a 58-year-old male with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (AF) with a CHA(2)DS(2)VASC score of 4 who developed central pulmonary embolism four days after interruption of rivaroxaban because of parotid surgery. He had received 40 mg enoxaparin/d. The parotid gland was partially resected within 6 hours without blood loss. Pulmonary embolism and AF occurred on the first postoperative day. He recovered with low-molecular-weight heparin in therapeutic dosages and amiodarone and was discharged with phenprocoumon. The relevance of a rivaroxaban rebound phenomenon, manifesting as arterial embolism, stroke or venous thromboembolism should be clarified. It should be assessed if rebound-phenomena also exist for the NOACs dabigatran, apixaban and edoxaban. Thus, the randomized trials and registries investigating patients with AF or venous thromboembolism should be re-analysed and, based on these data, recommendations should be developed for situations in which NOAC-therapy has to be interrupted or ceased.
28618127	Sodium Citrate	Hypocalcemia	0	0	0	0		Regional citrate anticoagulation in membrane based plasma exchange: Safety, efficacy and effect on calcium balance.	AIM: To assess the efficacy, safety and calcium balance of a membrane based regional citrate anticoagulation plasma exchange protocol. METHODS: This was an observational, prospective, single centre study of membrane separation plasma exchange using regional citrate anticoagulation. It was performed using a fixed dose pre-filter citrate infusion that was based on the plasma flow rate. Patients received a post filter calcium infusion that was modified during treatment based on systemic ionized calcium monitoring. Post filter ionized calcium was not assessed. Safety and efficacy were assessed by extraction of clinical events and laboratory data contemporaneously recorded in electronic health records. RESULTS: Thirty-six sessions in five patients were performed. No patients developed symptomatic hypocalcaemia, and no patient had a recorded ionized calcium below 0.81 mmol/L. Filter clotting occurred in two sessions. The mean net calcium gained was 9.6 +/- 1.8 mmol per session. CONCLUSION: Regional citrate anticoagulated membrane separation plasma exchange can be performed safely and effectively without the need for post filter ionized calcium monitoring. The algorithm employed resulted in a net calcium gain.
30713304	Levofloxacin	Brain Diseases	1	1	0	0	1.0	Levofloxacin-associated Encephalopathy with Severe Hyperventilation.	A 64-year-old woman with no previous mental illness took a single 500 mg tablet of levofloxacin for cystitis. Two hours later, she developed psychosis with involuntary movement and severe hyperventilation with respiratory alkalosis. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging findings were unremarkable, and an electroencephalogram revealed no epileptiform discharge. Her symptoms improved on the third day after levofloxacin was discontinued. Levofloxacin-associated encephalopathy with psychotic features is a rare adverse event. Disturbance of gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic (GABAergic) interneurons by levofloxacin may lead to hyperventilation via dysfunction of the brainstem respiratory network. Physicians should be aware of hyperventilation as an additional serious symptom of levofloxacin-associated encephalopathy in acute settings.
30428817	Cefepime	Acute Kidney Injury	0	0	0	0		Acute kidney injury in an older patient.	
30428817	Cefepime	Nephritis, Interstitial	0	0	0	0		Acute kidney injury in an older patient.	
30069912	Hydrochloric Acid	Esophageal Motility Disorders	0	0	0	0		Gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor type B agonist baclofen inhibits acid-induced excitation of secondary peristalsis but not heartburn sensation.	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Acute esophageal acid infusion promotes distension-induced secondary peristalsis. The gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor type B (GABA-B) receptors activation inhibits secondary peristalsis. This study aimed to test the hypothesis whether acid excitation of secondary peristalsis can be influenced by baclofen. METHODS: Secondary peristalsis was performed with intra-esophageal slow and rapid air injections in 13 healthy subjects. Direct esophageal infusion of 0.1 N HCl following pretreatment with placebo or baclofen was randomly performed at least 1 week apart. Symptom intensity, distension thresholds, and peristaltic parameters were determined and compared between each study protocol. RESULTS: The intensity of heartburn symptom in response to esophageal acid infusion was significantly greater with baclofen than the placebo (P = 0.002). The threshold volume of secondary peristalsis during slow air injections in response to acid infusion was significantly greater with baclofen than the placebo (P = 0.001). Baclofen significantly increased the threshold volume of secondary peristalsis during rapid air injections in response to acid infusion (P = 0.001). The frequency of secondary peristalsis in response to acid infusion was significantly decreased by baclofen as compared with the placebo (P = 0.001). Baclofen significantly decreased peristaltic amplitudes in response to acid infusion during rapid air injections (P = 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor type B agonist baclofen inhibits acid excitation of secondary peristalsis in human esophagus, which is probably mediated by both muscular and mucosal mechanoreceptors. This work supports the evidence of potential involvement of GABA-B receptors in negative modulation of acid excitation of esophageal perception as well as secondary peristalsis.
29851134	Levamisole	Skin Ulcer	1	0	0	1		Febrile ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease after levamisole-adulterated cocaine use: an unusual case.	
29426626	Isoniazid	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Antituberculosis Treatment in a Patient with Celiac Disease.	
31335731	Travoprost	Pruritus	0	0	0	0		Efficacy of travoprost for the treatment of patients with glaucoma.	BACKGROUND: This study will evaluate the efficacy of travoprost for patients with glaucoma systematically. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search will be carried from following literature sources from inception to the present: Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, Google scholar, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure. We will only consider randomized controlled trials on assessing the efficacy and safety of travoprost for glaucoma for inclusion. We will use Cochrane risk of bias tool for the methodological quality assessment for each qualified study. If it is possible, we will pool the outcome data, and will perform meta-analysis. RESULTS: This study will systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of travoprost for glaucoma. Primary outcomes include intraocular pressure (IOP), mean IOP, and mean reduction of IOP. Secondary outcomes consist of diastolic ocular perfusion pressure, central corneal thickness, and quality of life, as measured by 36-Item Short Form Health Survey, and treatment-related adverse events included hyperemia, eye pain, and eye pruritus. CONCLUSION: The findings of the present study will summarize the updated evidence of travoprost for patients with glaucoma.PROSPERO registration number: PROSPERO CRD42019126956.
30873838	Bexarotene	Hypercholesterolemia	1	0	0	1		Optimized Bexarotene Aerosol Formulation Inhibits Major Subtypes of Lung Cancer in Mice.	Bexarotene has shown inhibition of lung and mammary gland tumorigenesis in preclinical models and in clinical trials. The main side effects of orally administered bexarotene are hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. We previously demonstrated that aerosolized bexarotene administered by nasal inhalation has potent chemopreventive activity in a lung adenoma preclinical model without causing hypertriglyceridemia. To facilitate its future clinical translation, we modified the formula of the aerosolized bexarotene with a clinically relevant solvent system. This optimized aerosolized bexarotene formulation was tested against lung squamous cell carcinoma mouse model and lung adenocarcinoma mouse model and showed significant chemopreventive effect. This new formula did not cause visible signs of toxicity and did not increase plasma triglycerides or cholesterol. This aerosolized bexarotene was evenly distributed to the mouse lung parenchyma, and it modulated the microenvironment in vivo by increasing the tumor-infiltrating T cell population. RNA sequencing of the lung cancer cell lines demonstrated that multiple pathways are altered by bexarotene. For the first time, these studies demonstrate a new, clinically relevant aerosolized bexarotene formulation that exhibits preventive efficacy against the major subtypes of lung cancer. This approach could be a major advancement in lung cancer prevention for high risk populations, including former and present smokers.
29845392	Arsenic Trioxide	Leukocytosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Clinical pharmacokinetics and safety profile of single agent arsenic trioxide by continuous slow-rate infusion in patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia.	PURPOSE: This study evaluated pharmacokinetics (PK) and safety profiles of single agent arsenic trioxide (ATO, As(2)O(3)) administrated as continuous slow-rate infusion in patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients received 0.16 mg/kg ATO per day. ATO was given for 40 min infusion on the first day followed by 18-20 h daily at a very slow rate with infusion speed of 8 drips/min. During the first week, plasma samples were collected immediately before next administration on each day, and 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12 h after administration, at the end of infusion (18 h) on day 7. Total arsenic was determined by ICPMS. Arsenic species, arsenious acid (As(III)) and its metabolites, monomethylarsonic acid (MMA(V)) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)), were quantified by UHPLC-ICPMS. Safety assessment and PK analysis was conducted. RESULTS: Hyperleukocytosis occurred in two patients and no severe toxicity was observed. Total arsenic gradually accumulated from 15.84 to 34.12 ng/mL during the first week of therapy. MMA(V)/iAs increased and remained stable at value about 0.6 after day 4, while DMA(V)/MMA(V) declined under 2 after day 4. Compared with 2 h infusion, clearance (CL) of As(III) was significantly lower (0.8 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.7 +/- 1.7 L/kg/h, P = 0.002) while AUC(0-t) of As(III) was significantly increased (213.9 +/- 38.6 vs. 82.6 +/- 55.7 L/kg/h, P = 0.028). CONCLUSION: Continuous slow-rate ATO infusion provided an alternative administration for ATO therapy with few toxic effects. Degree of methylation from MMA to DMA is inconsistent with that from iAs to MMA. PK of arsenic species is considered important for clinical use of ATO.
30652510	Crizotinib	Heart Failure	0	0	0	0		Comparison of cardiovascular effects of crizotinib and chemotherapy in ALK-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.	AIM: We analyzed cardiac function in two Phase III studies of previously treated (PROFILE 1007) or untreated (PROFILE 1014) ALK-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. PATIENTS & METHODS: Adverse events associated with cardiac failure were compared between treatment arms in each study separately. Cardiac function was assessed prospectively by multigated acquisition scans or echocardiograms. RESULTS: In PROFILE 1007 and 1014, incidence of cardiac failure adverse events was 0% (crizotinib) versus 0.6% (chemotherapy) and 2.3% versus 0.6%, respectively. In crizotinib versus chemotherapy arms, respectively, >20% left ventricular ejection fraction decreases occurred in 0/19 (0%) versus 1/16 (6.3%) patients from PROFILE 1007 and 4/150 (2.7%) versus 10/150 (6.7%) patients from PROFILE 1014. CONCLUSION: These analyses did not reveal any clinically meaningful changes in myocardial function with crizotinib in patients with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: PROFILE 1007, NCT00932893; PROFILE 1014, NCT01154140.
30413905	Gentamicins	Fibrosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Locally Used Antibiotics for Spinal Infection Prophylaxis and Their Effects on Epidural Fibrosis: an Experimental Laminectomy Study in Rats Using Rifamycin and Gentamycin.	The study aims to assess the effects of antibiotics (ABs), which are typically used in spinal infection prophylaxis, on the formation of epidural fibrosis (EF). Specifically, we investigated the effect of rifamycin and gentamycin on EF formation in laminectomized rats. Thirty-two rats were randomly and equally divided into four groups as follows: laminectomy and physiological saline (0.9% NaCl) solution (control); laminectomy and rifamycin; laminectomy and gentamicin; and laminectomy and a mixture of rifamycin and gentamicin. Laminectomy was performed on L1 and L2 vertebrae in all rats. One month after spinal surgery, spinal tissue samples surrounding the laminectomy were cut with a microtome and stained with hematoxylin-eosin and Masson's trichrome. The histopathological analysis included examining the extent of EF, fibroblast cell density, and cartilage and bone regeneration. Statistical analysis was performed using the IBM SPSS Statistics 22 program (SPSS IBM, Turkey). A value of p < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. EF value differences between the AB treatment groups and the control group were statistically significant (p = 0.030). Specifically, binary comparisons indicated that the EF value was significantly higher in the rifamycin group than that in the control group (p = 0.003; p < 0.05). Our study suggests that locally applied ABs, especially rifamycin, should be diluted before administration to the epidural space.
30185146	Dexmedetomidine	Sleep Apnea, Obstructive	1	0	0	0		Comparison of upper airway patency in patients with mild obstructive sleep apnea during dexmedetomidine or propofol sedation: a prospective, randomized, controlled trial.	BACKGROUND: In addition to propofol, dexmedetomidine is a suitable alternative for intraoperative sedation in procedures requiring regional anesthesia. To date, however, little is known about the influences of each drug on upper airway patency. Accordingly, the authors investigated differences between dexmedetomidine and propofol sedation in the occurrence of upper airway obstruction and requirements for airway intervention in patients with mild obstructive sleep apnea. METHODS: Patients with an apnea/hypopnea index of 5-14/h according to Watch-PAT 200 analysis were enrolled in this study. Spinal anesthesia was routinely performed for surgery. Intraoperative sedation was initiated using either dexmedetomidine or propofol infusion at a level of modified observer's assessment of alertness/sedation scale 3. The primary outcome was the proportion of patients exhibiting signs of upper airway obstruction. A sign of upper airway obstruction was defined as no detection of end-tidal carbon dioxide for at least 10 s despite respiratory efforts. RESULTS: A total of 50 patients were included in the final analysis (dexmedetomidine [n = 26]; propofol [n = 24]). During the intraoperative sedation period, there was a significantly lower proportion of patients exhibiting signs of upper airway obstruction in the dexmedetomidine group than in the propofol group (11.5% vs. 41.7%, P = 0.035). An artificial airway was inserted in 1 patients (3.8%) and 5 patient (20.8%) in the dexmedetomidine and propofol groups, respectively (P = 0.093). CONCLUSION: Dexmedetomidine sedation was associated with a lower incidence of upper airway obstruction than propofol sedation in patients with mild obstructive sleep apnea. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Clinical trials.gov ( NCT02993718 ): Retrospectively registered.
31344218	Sildenafil Citrate	Amnesia, Transient Global	1	1	0	0	0.0	Transient global amnesia associated with sildenafil use. Report of one case.	A 69 years old male with erectile dysfunction lasting 2 years, took 50 mg of sildenafil for having sex with his wife at about 6 o'clock in the morning. One hour later his wife detected that he had an anterograde memory impairment: this was interpreted as a confusional state. The neurological examination suggested a transient global amnesia (TGA). EEG and cerebral magnetic resonance imaging were non-informative and memory deficits resolved within 24 h. Therefore, a TGA was diagnosed. Since no other trigger was detectable, sildenafil was deemed responsible for its occurrence.
30948396	Methotrexate	Urethral Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Primary malignant melanoma of the urethra in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis treated with methotrexate.	We report a case of a 79-year-old woman with urinary incontinence who presented at a urogynaecology appointment. Her medical history included rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treated with methotrexate (MXT) for 22 years. A polypoidal lesion was protruding from the meatus urethrae. The histoimmunocytology confirmed a primary superficial spreading malignant melanoma. The tumour was extensively excised, but 8 months later, due to a lymphatic nodal swelling, a positron emission tomography/CT was performed showing a process suspicious of malignant melanoma and multiple distant metastasis. The subsequent treatment was palliative and 1 year later, the patient died. The aetiology of malignant melanomas in the urethra is poorly understood. There is consistent evidence that RA is associated with a number of cancers, but it remains controversial whether this risk is increased with MXT. This case emphasises the importance of gynaecological examination even in patients with only weak symptoms from the pelvic region, especially in patients undergoing immunosuppressive treatment.
30948391	Ipilimumab	Colitis, Microscopic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Topical beclometasone dipropionate in the management of immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced microscopic colitis.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPis) have revolutionised survival outcomes for cancer patients by bolstering anti-tumour immunity. However, immune activation also occurs in non-cancer tissue, and a significant proportion of patients develop immune-mediated colitis, which can be fatal if not promptly recognised and managed. Diagnosis is often made by inflammation observed during lower gastrointestinal endoscopy. Little is known about microscopic inflammation (histological findings of inflammation in the absence of overt mucosal injury). Management strategies beyond the use of systemic corticosteroids, which incur a high burden of deleterious side effects, have not been extensively explored. We describe the cases of two cancer patients with ICPi-induced colitis who had isolated histoloigical features of colitis in the absence of macroscopic disease. Sustained clinical and histological remission was induced with the topical steroid preparation, beclometasone dipropionate (Clipper), with no adverse effects.
30809871	Ciprofloxacin	Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic	1	1	0	0	0.0	Assessing fluoroquinolone-associated aortic aneurysm and dissection: Data mining of the public version of the FDA adverse event reporting system.	AIMS: A recent large epidemiological study found fluoroquinolone use is associated with an increased risk of aortic aneurysm or dissection. We aimed to examine fluoroquinolone (ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin and moxifloxacin) associated aortic aneurysm or dissection through data mining of the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS). METHODS: Reports to the FAERS from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2016 were analysed. Pharmacovigilance tools were used for quantitative detection of signals that is, drug-associated adverse events, including reporting odds ratio, proportional reporting ratio, information component given by a Bayesian confidence propagation neural network and empirical Bayes geometric mean. Sensitivity analyses that limited the data by gender and adverse event date also showed similar trends. RESULTS: Based on 3721 adverse event reports, all three fluoroquinolones are associated with aortic aneurysm, and levofloxacin is associated with aortic dissection. The risk of aortic aneurysm is higher than the aortic dissection. Oral administration of fluoroquinolones is more likely to produce these adverse events. CONCLUSION: The results obtained herein are consistent with clinical observations, suggesting the necessity for further clinical research on aortic aneurysm and dissection associated with fluoroquinolones.
30745234	Nivolumab	Sarcoidosis	1	0	0	0		[Nivolumab and sarcoid reaction in lung cancer treatment].	
30686563	Nivolumab	Colitis	0	0	0	0		[Can nivolumab be used safely in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis?].	Anti-PD1 immunotherapies have become an essential treatment for bronchial cancer. According to published studies, PD1 and PD-L1 inhibitors have a better toxicity profile than chemotherapy. Nevertheless, some immune related toxicities can be potentially severe, such as induced interstitial lung disease (ILD). Currently, ILD patients are excluded from clinical trials using immunotherapy in lung cancer. IPF is the most frequent and severe form of ILD. Lung cancer represents a major complication of this disease and to date few data exist on the safety of immunotherapy in this context. We report 3 cases of IPF with lung cancer treated by nivolumab. All had a clinically mild to moderate IPF. The patients had received at least one line of chemotherapy before nivolumab and had progressive, metastatic lung cancer. Two patients experienced rapid cancer progression without immune toxicities. The third had a partial response but developed grade III immune colitis that led to discontinuation of the treatment. None developed lung toxicity or worsening of IPF on CT during follow-up, and death was always related to progression of the cancer. In our series of three patients with IPF, nivolumab was well tolerated with regard to their pulmonary condition. As inflammation and autoimmunity are probably marginal mechanisms in the pathogenesis of IPF, we do not believe that the presence of IPF should definitely disqualify potential candidates for treatment with nivolumab. Decisions should be taken, case-by-case, in selected patients without severe IPF and with no evidence of autoimmunity. In view of the epidemiology of lung cancer in IPF and the critical role of immunotherapy in the management of lung cancer, studies of prospective cohorts are urgently needed in this population.
30563719	Fatty Acids, Omega-3	Autism Spectrum Disorder	0	1	0	0		Chronic dietary changes in n-6/n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ratios cause developmental delay and reduce social interest in mice.	Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are one of the main cellular building blocks, and dietary changes in PUFA composition are proposed as a potential route to influence brain development. For example, initial studies indicated that there is a relation between blood omega-6(n-6)/omega-3(n-3) PUFA ratios and neurodevelopmental disease diagnosis. To study the consequences of dietary n-6/n-3 PUFA ratio changes, we investigated the impact of a n-3 supplemented and n-3 deficient diet in developing BTBR T + Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) - a mouse inbred strain displaying Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)-like symptomatology - and control C57BL/6J mice. This study showed that pre- and postnatal changed dietary n-6/n-3 ratio intake has a major impact on blood and brain PUFA composition, and led to delayed physical development and puberty onset in both strains. The PUFA induced developmental delay did not impact adult cognitive performance, but resulted in reduced social interest, a main ASD behavioral feature. Thus, both chronic dietary n-3 PUFA supplementation and depletion may not be beneficial.
30563719	Fatty Acids, Omega-3	Developmental Disabilities	0	1	0	0		Chronic dietary changes in n-6/n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ratios cause developmental delay and reduce social interest in mice.	Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are one of the main cellular building blocks, and dietary changes in PUFA composition are proposed as a potential route to influence brain development. For example, initial studies indicated that there is a relation between blood omega-6(n-6)/omega-3(n-3) PUFA ratios and neurodevelopmental disease diagnosis. To study the consequences of dietary n-6/n-3 PUFA ratio changes, we investigated the impact of a n-3 supplemented and n-3 deficient diet in developing BTBR T + Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) - a mouse inbred strain displaying Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)-like symptomatology - and control C57BL/6J mice. This study showed that pre- and postnatal changed dietary n-6/n-3 ratio intake has a major impact on blood and brain PUFA composition, and led to delayed physical development and puberty onset in both strains. The PUFA induced developmental delay did not impact adult cognitive performance, but resulted in reduced social interest, a main ASD behavioral feature. Thus, both chronic dietary n-3 PUFA supplementation and depletion may not be beneficial.
30526810	Infliximab	Lymphoma	1	1	0	0	0.0	Risk of malignant lymphoma in patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and methotrexate .	OBJECTIVE: This study investigated whether using biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (bDMARDs) further increases the risk of malignant lymphoma in patients with rheumatoid arthritis undergoing methotrexate therapy using spontaneous adverse reaction databases in different countries. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patient data were acquired from the US Food and Drug Administration's Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS), the Japanese Adverse Drug Event Report (JADER), and the Canada Vigilance Adverse Reaction Online Database (CVARD) from the first quarter of 2004 to the end of 2015. Data subset analysis was performed to investigate whether the use of bDMARDs further increased the risk of malignant lymphoma in patients receiving methotrexate therapy. RESULTS: The FAERS subset data indicated a significant association between Hodgkin lymphoma and methotrexate with infliximab (reporting odds ratio (ROR): 8.28. 95% CI: 5.70 - 12.02; information component (IC): 2.04, 95% CI: 1.59 - 2.49). In addition, signal scores suggested that methotrexate with infliximab (ROR: 3.26. 95% CI: 2.68 - 3.98; IC: 1.31, 95% CI: 1.04 - 1.58) was significantly associated with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The CVARD subset data also indicated a significant association between NHL and methotrexate with infliximab (ROR: 22.82. 95% CI: 5.02 - 103.78; IC: 1.77, 95% CI: 0.13 - 3.41). However, the JADER subset data revealed no significant associations. CONCLUSION: The present study shows that using infliximab further increases the risk of malignant lymphoma in patients receiving methotrexate therapy. .
30431425	Clopidogrel	Ischemia	0	0	0	0		The association between clopidogrel and 2-oxo-clopidogrel plasma levels and the long-term clinical outcome after acute myocardial infarction .	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: A significant number of ischemic events occur after acute myocardial infarction (MI), even when adhering to dual antiplatelet therapy including aspirin and clopidogrel. The aim of our study was to investigate the association between the concentration of the prodrug clopidogrel and its intermediary metabolite 2-oxo-clopidogrel plasma as well as demographic and clinical factors, and the long-term clinical outcome in patients with their first acute MI, ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction NSTEMI, treated with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included 172 consecutive patients with their first acute MI, 88 STEMI, and 84 NSTEMI, treated with PCI. On the third day of hospitalization, blood samples were collected from each patient to measure the concentration of clopidogrel and its metabolite 2-oxo-clopidogrel using the UHPLC-DAD-MS method. The following clinical outcomes were registered during the 28-month follow-up: mortality from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, and hospitalization for urgent myocardial revascularization or heart failure. RESULTS: Lower dose-adjusted clopidogrel concentrations (p < 0.05) were measured in NSTEMI patients with a composite of the hard clinical endpoint events of cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal MI, or a nonfatal stroke. During the follow-up, there was a 3.4 times higher risk of hard clinical endpoint events (p < 0.05) for each unit decrement of the dose-adjusted clopidogrel plasma concentration. Lower dose-adjusted concentrations of clopidogrel in these patients were associated with lower left ventricular ejection fraction (p < 0.001), and fentanyl (p < 0.001) and pantoprazole administration (p < 0.01) during the acute phase of MI. CONCLUSION: In patients with acute MI treated with PCI, lower dose-adjusted clopidogrel and dose-adjusted 2-oxo-clopidogrel plasma concentrations were associated with an increased risk of ischemic events. .
30227807	Dimethyl Sulfoxide	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	0	0.0	Asystole during onyx embolisation of a dural AV fistula: The trigeminocardiac reflex.	There are fewer than 20 published case reports of bradycardia or asystole during intracranial embolisation procedures. These are well described in open neurosurgical procedures, particularly involving the skull base. We present a case of a 59-year-old male patient who presented for elective embolisation of a dural arteriovenous fistula. During the injection of Onyx, the patient experience sudden asystole, which recurred after a second Onyx injection. Following successful treatment, a third injection proceeded without incident.
30182426	Bupivacaine	Horse Diseases	0	0	0	0		Plasma and synovial fluid concentrations and cartilage toxicity of bupivacaine following intra-articular administration of a liposomal formulation to horses.	BACKGROUND: The use of intra-articular (IA) local anaesthetics has proven to be an effective means to treat post-operative pain. The effects of local anaesthetics on equine chondrocytes are mixed with some studies reporting chondrodestruction and others no adverse effects. A liposomal formulation of bupivacaine is used in people and dogs by intra- and peri-articular administration to provide up to 72 h of analgesia. The potential uses, side effects including chondrotoxicity, and likelihood of abuse (long-term analgesic effects) has not been evaluated in horses. OBJECTIVES: Describe bupivacaine concentrations following IA administration and assess biomarkers as indicators of the effects of liposomal bupivacaine on chondrocytes in vivo. STUDY DESIGN: Parallel design. METHODS: Sixteen exercised horses received a single IA administration of 0.12 mg/kg liposomal bupivacaine or 0.9% saline. Blood and urine samples were collected for 96 h post-drug administration. Six horses treated with bupivacaine and those receiving saline, underwent daily arthrocentesis. Six additional bupivacaine treated horses underwent arthrocentesis at 96 h. Drug concentrations were measured using LC-MS/MS and pharmacokinetic analyses performed. Immunoassays were used to measure markers of collagen degradation (C2C, C12C) and cartilage matrix synthesis (CPII, CS846) in synovial fluid. RESULTS: The bupivacaine plasma elimination half-life was 17.8 +/- 5.42 and 11.9 +/- 5.17 h for horses from which synovial fluid was collected daily and at 96 h respectively. Bupivacaine concentrations in the joint were still detectable at 96 h. Significant increases in C12C and C2C were noted at 96 h in horses undergoing arthrocentesis at 96 h only. CPII was increased at 48 h and CS846 at 24 and 48 h in horses sampled daily. MAIN LIMITATIONS: Limited number of animals and absence of liposome control group. CONCLUSIONS: Sustained concentrations of IA bupivacaine suggest viability of this medication as an intra-articular analgesic. Effects on equine chondrocytes need further study.
29592917	Certolizumab Pegol	Opportunistic Infections	1	0	0	0		Serious infection across biologic-treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis: results from the British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register for Rheumatoid Arthritis.	OBJECTIVES: To compare the incidence of serious infection (SI) across biologic drugs used to treat rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using data from the British Society for Rheumatology Biologics Register for Rheumatoid Arthritis (BSRBR-RA). METHODS: The BSRBR-RA is a prospective observational cohort study. This analysis included patients with RA starting a new biologic. The primary outcome was SI defined as an infectious event requiring admission to hospital, intravenous antibiotics or resulting in death. Event rates were calculated and compared across biologics using Cox proportional hazards with adjustment for potential confounders. Secondary outcomes were the rate of infection by organ class and 30-day mortality following infection. RESULTS: This analysis included 19 282 patients with 46 771 years of follow-up. The incidence of SI was 5.51 cases per 100 patient years for the entire cohort (95% CI 5.29 to 5.71). Compared with etanercept, tocilizumab had a higher risk of SI (HR 1.22, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.47) and certolizumab pegol a lower risk of SI (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.58 to 0.97) in the fully adjusted model. The 30-day mortality following SI was 10.4% (95% CI 9.2% to 11.6%). CONCLUSIONS: The rate of SI was lower with certolizumab pegol than etanercept in the primary analysis but the result was no longer significant in several sensitivity analyses performed suggesting residual confounding may account for the observed difference. From these results, it would be wrong to conclude that certolizumab pegol has a lower rate of SI than other biologics; however, the risk does not appear to be significantly higher as has previously been suggested.
29517453	Cholecalciferol	Rodent Diseases	0	1	0	0		SUSPECTED HYPERVITAMINOSIS D IN RED-RUMPED AGOUTI ( DASYPROCTA LEPORINA) RECEIVING A COMMERCIAL RODENT DIET.	An 8 yr, intact male red-rumped agouti ( Dasyprocta leporina) was evaluated for weight loss. Examination revealed poor body condition, hypercalcemia, elevated serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D, metastatic calcification of soft tissues, and hyperechoic kidneys. The diet, formulated for laboratory rodents, contained elevated levels of vitamin D(3). Histopathology from a female conspecific that died 5 mo prior identified dystrophic mineralization and nephrosclerosis, suggestive of a vitamin D(3) toxicity. The male agouti responded well to a dietary reduction in vitamin D(3) and calcium. Six months into therapy, progressive renal failure was identified and was further managed with enalapril, phosphorus binders, and dietary manipulation. Suspected vitamin D(3) toxicity has been reported in pacas ( Cuniculus paca) and agouti and has been linked to exposure to New World primate diets. In this brief communication, an agouti developed suspected hypervitaminosis D after receiving a commercial rodent diet commonly fed to this species in captivity.
29036361	Oxaliplatin	Chronic Pain	1	1	0	0	0.0	Chronic Pain and Neuropathy Following Adjuvant Chemotherapy.	OBJECTIVE: To determine symptoms and characteristics of chronic sensory neuropathy in patients treated with oxaliplatin and docetaxel, including patterns of somatosensory abnormalities, pain descriptors, and psychological functioning. DESIGN: A retrospective cross-sectional study. SETTING: A chronic pain research center. SUBJECTS: Thirty-eight patients with chronic peripheral pain and/or dysesthesia following chemotherapy. METHODS: Sensory profiles, psychological functioning, and quality of life were assessed using standardized questionnaires. In addition, standardized quantitative sensory testing and nerve conduction studies were carried out. RESULTS: The sensory profiles and clinical symptoms were very similar in the two groups. Pricking, numbness, and burning were common descriptors in both groups, and the predominant finding was sensory loss to A beta-mediated sensory modalities with decreased mechanical and vibration detection thresholds. A high frequency of abnormalities in thermal sensory limen and the presence of paradoxical heat sensation seem to be sensitive markers of small fiber loss. Both groups had mainly sensory, axonal large fiber or mixed fiber polyneuropathy, which tended to be most severe in the oxaliplatin group. CONCLUSIONS: Both oxaliplatin-induced and docetaxel-induced polyneuropathies represent a significant problem that affects the daily life of the patients. Our results, defining the somatosensory phenotype, can improve the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms useful for future studies in the tailored treatment of prevention of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy and pain.
28970216	Allopurinol	Dementia	0	0	0	0		Use of urate-lowering therapies is not associated with an increase in the risk of incident dementia in older adults.	
28970216	Febuxostat	Dementia	0	0	0	0		Use of urate-lowering therapies is not associated with an increase in the risk of incident dementia in older adults.	
28064163	Spironolactone	Albuminuria	0	0	0	0		Predicting albuminuria response to spironolactone treatment with urinary proteomics in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension.	BACKGROUND: The mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone significantly reduces albuminuria in patients with diabetes. Prior studies have shown large between-patient variability in albuminuria treatment response. We previously developed and validated a urinary proteomic classifier that predicts onset and progression of chronic kidney disease. Here, we tested whether the proteomic classifier based on 273 urinary peptides (CKD273) predicts albuminuria response to spironolactone treatment. METHODS: We performed a post hoc analysis in a double-blind randomized clinical trial with allocation to either spironolactone 12.5-50 mg/day (n = 57) or placebo (n = 54) for 16 weeks. Patients were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes and resistant hypertension. Treatment was an adjunct to renin-angiotensin system inhibition. Primary endpoint was the percentage change in urine albumin to creatinine ratio (UACR). Capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry was used to quantify urinary peptides at baseline. The previously validated combination of 273 known urinary peptides was used as proteomic classifier. RESULTS: Spironolactone reduced UACR relative to placebo by 50%, although with a large between-patient variability in UACR response (5th to 95th percentile, 7 to 312%). An interaction was detected between CKD273 and treatment assignment (beta = -1.09, P = 0.026). Higher values of CKD273 at baseline were associated with a larger reduction in UACR in the spironolactone group (beta = -0.70, P = 0.049), but not in the placebo group (beta = 0.39, P = 0.25). Stratified in tertiles of baseline CKD273, reduction in UACR was greater in the highest tertile, 63% (95% confidence interval: 35-79%), as compared with the two other tertiles combined, 16% (-17 to 40%) (P = 0.011). CONCLUSIONS: A urinary proteomics classifier can be used to identify individuals with type 2 diabetes who are more likely to show an albuminuria-lowering response to spironolactone treatment. These results suggest that urinary proteomics may be a valuable tool to tailor therapy, but confirmation in a larger clinical trial is required.
30879013	Cannabis	Stress, Psychological	1	1	0	0	0.0	Comparison of Cortisol Stress Response in Patients with Panic Disorder, Cannabis-Induced Panic Disorder, and Healthy Controls.	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Little research effort has so far been dedicated to the analysis of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis of aetiologically differing subgroups of patients with panic disorder (PD). The current study aimed at a deeper understanding of the cortisol stress response in cannabis-induced PD (CIPD) patients. METHODS: Matched groups of 7 PD patients (mean age +/- SD: 32.95 +/- 9.04 years), 7 CIPD patients (31.94 +/- 8.40 years), and 7 healthy controls (HC) (31.13 +/- 8.57 years) were included in the study. The Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) was used for stress induction. Salivary cortisol samples were collected and panic- and depression-related questionnaires were applied. RESULTS: A stress response to the TSST was found in 28.6% of PD patients, in 51.1% of CIPD patients, and in 100% of HC subjects. Statistical analyses revealed a cortisol hyporesponsiveness in PD and CIPD patients. While cortisol values of PD patients and HC participants differed significantly, CIPD patients' cortisol courses balanced between those of PD patients and HC subjects. CONCLUSIONS: Current findings show a distinctive pattern of the stress-induced cortisol reaction in CIPD patients, which is markedly different from the hormonal response in PD patients as well as HC subjects. Previous findings of cortisol hyporesponsiveness in PD patients compared to HC subjects were confirmed.
30153910	Carbon Monoxide	Asphyxia Neonatorum	0	0	0	0		Air pollution exposure during pregnancy: maternal asthma and neonatal respiratory outcomes.	PURPOSE: Maternal asthma increases adverse neonatal respiratory outcomes, and pollution may further increase risk. Air quality in relation to neonatal respiratory health has not been studied. METHODS: Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN), asphyxia, and respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) were identified using medical records among 223,375 singletons from the Consortium on Safe Labor (2002-2008). Community Multiscale Air Quality models estimated pollutant exposures. Multipollutant Poisson regression models calculated adjusted relative risks of outcomes for interquartile range increases in average exposure. Maternal asthma and preterm delivery were evaluated as effect modifiers. RESULTS: TTN risk increased after particulate matter (PM) less than or equal to 10-micron exposure during preconception and trimester one (9-10%), and whole-pregnancy exposure to PM less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM(2.5); 17%) and carbon monoxide (CO; 10%). Asphyxia risk increased after exposure to PM(2.5) in trimester one (48%) and whole pregnancy (84%), CO in trimester two and whole pregnancy (28-32%), and consistently for ozone (34%-73%). RDS risk was associated with increased concentrations of nitrogen oxides (33%-42%) and ozone (9%-21%) during all pregnancy windows. Inverse associations were observed with several pollutants, particularly sulfur dioxide. No interaction with maternal asthma was observed. Restriction to term births yielded similar results. CONCLUSIONS: Several pollutants appear to increase neonatal respiratory outcome risks.
30153910	Sulfur Dioxide	Asphyxia	0	0	0	0		Air pollution exposure during pregnancy: maternal asthma and neonatal respiratory outcomes.	PURPOSE: Maternal asthma increases adverse neonatal respiratory outcomes, and pollution may further increase risk. Air quality in relation to neonatal respiratory health has not been studied. METHODS: Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN), asphyxia, and respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) were identified using medical records among 223,375 singletons from the Consortium on Safe Labor (2002-2008). Community Multiscale Air Quality models estimated pollutant exposures. Multipollutant Poisson regression models calculated adjusted relative risks of outcomes for interquartile range increases in average exposure. Maternal asthma and preterm delivery were evaluated as effect modifiers. RESULTS: TTN risk increased after particulate matter (PM) less than or equal to 10-micron exposure during preconception and trimester one (9-10%), and whole-pregnancy exposure to PM less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM(2.5); 17%) and carbon monoxide (CO; 10%). Asphyxia risk increased after exposure to PM(2.5) in trimester one (48%) and whole pregnancy (84%), CO in trimester two and whole pregnancy (28-32%), and consistently for ozone (34%-73%). RDS risk was associated with increased concentrations of nitrogen oxides (33%-42%) and ozone (9%-21%) during all pregnancy windows. Inverse associations were observed with several pollutants, particularly sulfur dioxide. No interaction with maternal asthma was observed. Restriction to term births yielded similar results. CONCLUSIONS: Several pollutants appear to increase neonatal respiratory outcome risks.
30153910	Sulfur Dioxide	Asphyxia Neonatorum	0	0	0	0		Air pollution exposure during pregnancy: maternal asthma and neonatal respiratory outcomes.	PURPOSE: Maternal asthma increases adverse neonatal respiratory outcomes, and pollution may further increase risk. Air quality in relation to neonatal respiratory health has not been studied. METHODS: Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN), asphyxia, and respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) were identified using medical records among 223,375 singletons from the Consortium on Safe Labor (2002-2008). Community Multiscale Air Quality models estimated pollutant exposures. Multipollutant Poisson regression models calculated adjusted relative risks of outcomes for interquartile range increases in average exposure. Maternal asthma and preterm delivery were evaluated as effect modifiers. RESULTS: TTN risk increased after particulate matter (PM) less than or equal to 10-micron exposure during preconception and trimester one (9-10%), and whole-pregnancy exposure to PM less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM(2.5); 17%) and carbon monoxide (CO; 10%). Asphyxia risk increased after exposure to PM(2.5) in trimester one (48%) and whole pregnancy (84%), CO in trimester two and whole pregnancy (28-32%), and consistently for ozone (34%-73%). RDS risk was associated with increased concentrations of nitrogen oxides (33%-42%) and ozone (9%-21%) during all pregnancy windows. Inverse associations were observed with several pollutants, particularly sulfur dioxide. No interaction with maternal asthma was observed. Restriction to term births yielded similar results. CONCLUSIONS: Several pollutants appear to increase neonatal respiratory outcome risks.
29773166	Ticagrelor	Cheyne-Stokes Respiration	1	0	0	0		Ticagrelor and Central Sleep Apnea.	
29656050	Bortezomib	Dehydration	0	0	0	0		An Expanded Treatment Protocol of Panobinostat Plus Bortezomib and Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Treated Myeloma.	BACKGROUND: Panobinostat was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and European Commission in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma who have received >/= 2 regimens, including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory drug. The PANEX (panobinostat expansion) treatment protocol provided access to panobinostat and gathered additional safety data before commercial availability. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In treatment phase 1, patients received panobinostat 20 mg 3 times per week plus bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) twice weekly with dexamethasone 20 mg on the days of and after bortezomib treatment. Patients with no change or better in treatment phase 1 proceeded to treatment phase 2, when bortezomib was reduced to once weekly. Unlike in the phase III trial, PANORAMA-1 (panobinostat or placebo with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma), bortezomib could be administered either subcutaneously or intravenously. RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients with a median number of previous treatments of 4 (range, 1-12) were enrolled; most received subcutaneous bortezomib (87%). The overall response rate (partial response or better) was 56%. Grade 3/4 adverse events included thrombocytopenia (47%), fatigue (31%), dehydration (26%), and diarrhea (18%). Among the patients who received subcutaneous bortezomib, relatively low rates of peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 15%) and notable grade 3/4 adverse events (thrombocytopenia, 47%; diarrhea, 12%) were observed. CONCLUSION: Overall, data from the PANEX trial support regulatory approval of panobinostat plus bortezomib and dexamethasone and suggest the potential tolerability benefits of subcutaneous bortezomib in this regimen.
29656050	Dexamethasone	Dehydration	0	0	0	0		An Expanded Treatment Protocol of Panobinostat Plus Bortezomib and Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Treated Myeloma.	BACKGROUND: Panobinostat was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and European Commission in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma who have received >/= 2 regimens, including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory drug. The PANEX (panobinostat expansion) treatment protocol provided access to panobinostat and gathered additional safety data before commercial availability. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In treatment phase 1, patients received panobinostat 20 mg 3 times per week plus bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) twice weekly with dexamethasone 20 mg on the days of and after bortezomib treatment. Patients with no change or better in treatment phase 1 proceeded to treatment phase 2, when bortezomib was reduced to once weekly. Unlike in the phase III trial, PANORAMA-1 (panobinostat or placebo with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma), bortezomib could be administered either subcutaneously or intravenously. RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients with a median number of previous treatments of 4 (range, 1-12) were enrolled; most received subcutaneous bortezomib (87%). The overall response rate (partial response or better) was 56%. Grade 3/4 adverse events included thrombocytopenia (47%), fatigue (31%), dehydration (26%), and diarrhea (18%). Among the patients who received subcutaneous bortezomib, relatively low rates of peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 15%) and notable grade 3/4 adverse events (thrombocytopenia, 47%; diarrhea, 12%) were observed. CONCLUSION: Overall, data from the PANEX trial support regulatory approval of panobinostat plus bortezomib and dexamethasone and suggest the potential tolerability benefits of subcutaneous bortezomib in this regimen.
29656050	Panobinostat	Fatigue	0	0	0	0		An Expanded Treatment Protocol of Panobinostat Plus Bortezomib and Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Treated Myeloma.	BACKGROUND: Panobinostat was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and European Commission in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma who have received >/= 2 regimens, including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory drug. The PANEX (panobinostat expansion) treatment protocol provided access to panobinostat and gathered additional safety data before commercial availability. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In treatment phase 1, patients received panobinostat 20 mg 3 times per week plus bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) twice weekly with dexamethasone 20 mg on the days of and after bortezomib treatment. Patients with no change or better in treatment phase 1 proceeded to treatment phase 2, when bortezomib was reduced to once weekly. Unlike in the phase III trial, PANORAMA-1 (panobinostat or placebo with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma), bortezomib could be administered either subcutaneously or intravenously. RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients with a median number of previous treatments of 4 (range, 1-12) were enrolled; most received subcutaneous bortezomib (87%). The overall response rate (partial response or better) was 56%. Grade 3/4 adverse events included thrombocytopenia (47%), fatigue (31%), dehydration (26%), and diarrhea (18%). Among the patients who received subcutaneous bortezomib, relatively low rates of peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 15%) and notable grade 3/4 adverse events (thrombocytopenia, 47%; diarrhea, 12%) were observed. CONCLUSION: Overall, data from the PANEX trial support regulatory approval of panobinostat plus bortezomib and dexamethasone and suggest the potential tolerability benefits of subcutaneous bortezomib in this regimen.
29656050	Panobinostat	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	0	0	0	0		An Expanded Treatment Protocol of Panobinostat Plus Bortezomib and Dexamethasone in Patients With Previously Treated Myeloma.	BACKGROUND: Panobinostat was recently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration and European Commission in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma who have received >/= 2 regimens, including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory drug. The PANEX (panobinostat expansion) treatment protocol provided access to panobinostat and gathered additional safety data before commercial availability. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In treatment phase 1, patients received panobinostat 20 mg 3 times per week plus bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) twice weekly with dexamethasone 20 mg on the days of and after bortezomib treatment. Patients with no change or better in treatment phase 1 proceeded to treatment phase 2, when bortezomib was reduced to once weekly. Unlike in the phase III trial, PANORAMA-1 (panobinostat or placebo with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma), bortezomib could be administered either subcutaneously or intravenously. RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients with a median number of previous treatments of 4 (range, 1-12) were enrolled; most received subcutaneous bortezomib (87%). The overall response rate (partial response or better) was 56%. Grade 3/4 adverse events included thrombocytopenia (47%), fatigue (31%), dehydration (26%), and diarrhea (18%). Among the patients who received subcutaneous bortezomib, relatively low rates of peripheral neuropathy (all grade, 15%) and notable grade 3/4 adverse events (thrombocytopenia, 47%; diarrhea, 12%) were observed. CONCLUSION: Overall, data from the PANEX trial support regulatory approval of panobinostat plus bortezomib and dexamethasone and suggest the potential tolerability benefits of subcutaneous bortezomib in this regimen.
29275805	Nitrous Oxide	Brain Injuries	1	1	0	0	0.0	"From Dental to Mental Institutions: Did Hypoxic Anesthetics by ""Dental Associations"" Add More Brain-Injured Patients to America's Insane Asylums?"	Though most patients survived the hypoxic challenge, some patients likely suffered asphyxial brain damage from GQ Colton's nitrous-oxide techniques and were admitted to insane or lunatic asylums.
28272671	Imatinib Mesylate	Chromosome Aberrations	1	1	1	1	1.0	Hodgkin Lymphoma in a Case of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Treated with Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors.	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is characterized by increased and unregulated proliferation of granulocytic lineage in the bone marrow and presence of these immature myeloid cells in the peripheral blood with presence of Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are the most important drugs in the CML therapy and provide long disease-free survival. Due to the increased survival of CML patients with continual administration of these drugs, the chance of development of secondary malignancies may increase. The most common secondary malignancies are prostate, colorectal and lung cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, malignant melanoma, non-melanoma skin tumors and breast cancer. Herein, we are describing a rare case of Hodgkin lymphoma in a patient of CML after ten year of primary disease presentation. Hodgkin lymphoma in a known case of CML is very rare and further studies are also needed to know the pathogenic relationship between the two entities and to assess the risk of secondary Hodgkin lymphoma in CML patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors. CML itself is a risk factor for development of solid cancers and hematologic malignancies. In addition, patients on chemotherapy are immune-compromised and may be at greater risk of neoplasm driven by infectious agents such as Epstein-Barr virus.
28272671	Imatinib Mesylate	Hodgkin Disease	1	1	1	1	1.0	Hodgkin Lymphoma in a Case of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Treated with Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors.	Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is characterized by increased and unregulated proliferation of granulocytic lineage in the bone marrow and presence of these immature myeloid cells in the peripheral blood with presence of Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are the most important drugs in the CML therapy and provide long disease-free survival. Due to the increased survival of CML patients with continual administration of these drugs, the chance of development of secondary malignancies may increase. The most common secondary malignancies are prostate, colorectal and lung cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, malignant melanoma, non-melanoma skin tumors and breast cancer. Herein, we are describing a rare case of Hodgkin lymphoma in a patient of CML after ten year of primary disease presentation. Hodgkin lymphoma in a known case of CML is very rare and further studies are also needed to know the pathogenic relationship between the two entities and to assess the risk of secondary Hodgkin lymphoma in CML patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors. CML itself is a risk factor for development of solid cancers and hematologic malignancies. In addition, patients on chemotherapy are immune-compromised and may be at greater risk of neoplasm driven by infectious agents such as Epstein-Barr virus.
31366507	Oxaliplatin	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Assessment of Oxaliplatin-induced Chronic Neuropathy and Anticancer Efficacy Through Pharmacokinetic and Toxicodynamic Evaluation of a Rat Model of Colorectal Cancer.	BACKGROUND/AIM: Oxaliplatin-induced chronic neuropathy is a prominent factor for dose reduction and not completing all cycles of chemotherapy for patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). The aim of the study was to investigate the pharmacokinetics and toxicodynamics of oxaliplatin-induced chronic neuropathy in CRC rats to ensure effective management. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A rat model of CRC was developed using 1,2-Dimethylhydrazine and dextran sulfate. Oxaliplatin (L-OHP) was administered intravenously to CRC rats every week. The pharmacokinetic profiles and tumor distribution of L-OHP and chronic neuropathies were investigated for over four weeks. RESULTS: The mean values of the area under the concentration-time curve for L-OHP showed a dose-dependent increase. Chronic neuropathy occurred from Day 14 in the 8 mg/kg group and Day 19 in the 3 and 5 mg/kg groups. CONCLUSION: These results provide preliminary information for the development of a pharmacokinetic and toxicodynamic model of L-OHP for CRC therapy cycles.
29745067	Propofol	Neoplasm Recurrence, Local	0	0	0	0		Surgery for triple-negative breast cancer- does the type of anaesthesia have an influence on oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and outcomes of disease?	Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in females. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a molecular subtype of breast cancer which has a high mortality rate because of aggressive proliferation, quick occurrence of metastasis, and lack of effective treatment. New data show evidence that the type of anaesthesia can affect breast cancer recurrence and long-term outcome. Because TNBC lacks targets for modern specific therapy, a perioperative period could be the field of investigations for the long-term outcomes in TNBC influence. We reviewed the literature on research focusing on the influence of anaesthetics to oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and TNBC oncological outcomes.
29745067	Sevoflurane	Inflammation	0	0	0	0		Surgery for triple-negative breast cancer- does the type of anaesthesia have an influence on oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and outcomes of disease?	Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in females. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a molecular subtype of breast cancer which has a high mortality rate because of aggressive proliferation, quick occurrence of metastasis, and lack of effective treatment. New data show evidence that the type of anaesthesia can affect breast cancer recurrence and long-term outcome. Because TNBC lacks targets for modern specific therapy, a perioperative period could be the field of investigations for the long-term outcomes in TNBC influence. We reviewed the literature on research focusing on the influence of anaesthetics to oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and TNBC oncological outcomes.
29745067	Sevoflurane	Neoplasm Recurrence, Local	0	0	0	0		Surgery for triple-negative breast cancer- does the type of anaesthesia have an influence on oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and outcomes of disease?	Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in females. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a molecular subtype of breast cancer which has a high mortality rate because of aggressive proliferation, quick occurrence of metastasis, and lack of effective treatment. New data show evidence that the type of anaesthesia can affect breast cancer recurrence and long-term outcome. Because TNBC lacks targets for modern specific therapy, a perioperative period could be the field of investigations for the long-term outcomes in TNBC influence. We reviewed the literature on research focusing on the influence of anaesthetics to oxidative stress, inflammation, molecular regulators, and TNBC oncological outcomes.
29620599	Adalimumab	Autoimmune Diseases of the Nervous System	1	0	0	0		Small-Fiber Neuropathy in a Pediatric Patient Following Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis.	
29620599	Infliximab	Autoimmune Diseases of the Nervous System	1	0	0	0		Small-Fiber Neuropathy in a Pediatric Patient Following Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha Therapy for Ulcerative Colitis.	
30927977	Hydroxyurea	Myeloproliferative Disorders	1	0	0	0		Therapy-associated leukemic transformation in myeloproliferative neoplasms - What do we know?	Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of progressive diseases that share a common pathogenesis, clinical and laboratory features, as well as a spontaneous risk of secondary AML. Certain MPN therapies have been associated with an increased risk of leukemic conversion, with robust data highlighting the highest rates with (32)P, chlorambucil, and pipobroman. Herein, we review risk factors for leukemic transformation, including therapy-related MPN-BP, with a focus on the debate surrounding the potential leukemogenicity of hydroxyurea. Lastly, we discuss emerging studies on the association between ruxolitinib and high grade B-cell lymphomas. We conclude that statistical associations have not implicated hydroxyurea monotherapy as leukemogenic. However, it is difficult to definitely disprove an association, as large prospective, controlled studies with decades of follow-up would be needed to draw conclusions. Overall, the concept of therapy-related neoplasms remains important to the field, and mandates judicious selection and sequencing of therapies for MPN patients.
30927974	Platinum	Hematologic Neoplasms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Myeloid malignancies after treatment for solid tumours.	The cure rate for several solid tumour malignancies including breast cancers, head and neck cancers, bone cancers, and sarcoma has improved remarkably with the advent of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies. Unfortunately, exposure to chemotherapy or radiation as a part of these treatments exposes patients to the risk of subsequent myeloid malignancies. Therapy related myeloid malignancies have certain characteristic findings. They typically arise within 10 years of treatment exposure, they are seen in younger patients, and the greatest risk is in patients who receive therapy with alkylating agents or topoisomerase II inhibitors. Solid tumours whose therapies utilize these agents at higher doses, namely bone/soft tissue cancers, testicular cancer, anal cancer, and brain tumours, appear to be the groups at highest risk for T-MN. Beyond these patients, emerging populations diagnosed with T-MN include prior platinum exposure, and patients requiring G-CSF support with chemotherapy.
30927974	Platinum	Myeloproliferative Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Myeloid malignancies after treatment for solid tumours.	The cure rate for several solid tumour malignancies including breast cancers, head and neck cancers, bone cancers, and sarcoma has improved remarkably with the advent of neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapies. Unfortunately, exposure to chemotherapy or radiation as a part of these treatments exposes patients to the risk of subsequent myeloid malignancies. Therapy related myeloid malignancies have certain characteristic findings. They typically arise within 10 years of treatment exposure, they are seen in younger patients, and the greatest risk is in patients who receive therapy with alkylating agents or topoisomerase II inhibitors. Solid tumours whose therapies utilize these agents at higher doses, namely bone/soft tissue cancers, testicular cancer, anal cancer, and brain tumours, appear to be the groups at highest risk for T-MN. Beyond these patients, emerging populations diagnosed with T-MN include prior platinum exposure, and patients requiring G-CSF support with chemotherapy.
30910200	Selenium	Alzheimer Disease	0	0	0	0		Selenium and selenium species in the etiology of Alzheimer's dementia: The potential for bias of the case-control study design.	Several human studies imply that the trace element selenium and its species may influence the onset of neurological disease, including Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Nevertheless, the literature is conflicting, with reported associations between exposure and risk in opposite direction, possibly due to biases in exposure assessment. After conducting a cohort study that detected an excess AD risk associated with higher levels of inorganic-hexavalent selenium in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), we investigated the relation between selenium and AD using a case-control study design. We determined cerebrospinal fluid levels of selenium species in 56 MCI participants already included in the cohort study, considered as referents, and in 33 patients with established AD. AD risk was inversely correlated with inorganic selenium species and with the organic form bound to selenoprotein P. Selenium bound to other organo-selenium species was positively correlated with AD risk, suggesting compensatory selenoprotein upregulation following increased oxidative stress. The finding of an increased AD risk associated with inorganic-hexavalent selenium from the cohort study was not replicated. This case-control study yielded entirely different results than those generated by a cohort study with a partially overlapping participant population, suggesting that case-control design does not allow to reliably assess the role of selenium exposure in AD etiology. This inability appears to be due to exposure misclassification, falsely indicating an etiologic role of selenium deficiency likely due to reverse causation, and involving most selenium species. The case-control design may instead lend insights into the pathologic process underlying disease progression.
30994032	Atomoxetine Hydrochloride	Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological	1	0	0	0		Case report: Severe and treatment-resistant spontaneous ejaculation secondary to atomoxetine.	
30851640	Natalizumab	Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting	1	1	0	0	0.0	Alemtuzumab as rescue therapy in case of multiple sclerosis rebound following Natalizumab break: Clinical case and literature review.	INTRODUCTION: Natalizumab break exposes multiple sclerosis (MS) patients to a high risk of disease reactivation or rebound, whose prevention and treatment constitute a clinical challenge. CASE PRESENTATION: We describe a dramatic case of MS rebound, characterized by the development of severe neurological and psychiatric symptoms, following natalizumab break. Alemtuzumab rapidly and completely suppressed brain inflammation as demonstrated by clinical and radiological findings. CONCLUSIONS: Our case further adds to the available literature evidence on Alemtuzumab as first-choice rescue therapy following Natalizumab discontinuation.
30629296	Metformin	Anorexia Nervosa	1	1	0	1	1.0	Metformin abuse: A novel and dangerous purging behavior in anorexia nervosa.	OBJECTIVE: To report a case of severe multisystem illness, near death and permanent kidney failure in a woman with a history of anorexia nervosa-binge purge type due to abuse of prescription metformin, an approved oral diabetes medication obtained surreptitiously via the internet. METHOD: Psychiatric and medical records were reviewed from the medical care of this patient. A literature search was also performed on prescription medication abuse as a mode of purging. DISCUSSION: Metformin abuse in a patient with an eating disorder as a purging behavior is a rarely reported, albeit very dangerous entity. Clinicians treating eating disorders should increasingly be aware of the potential abuse of prescription medications, unapproved for weight loss but which have weight loss, as a reported side effect. This is particularly important as the ability to obtain prescription medications via the internet, without a prescription, becomes more ubiquitous.
29902447	Belladonna Alkaloids	Urinary Retention	0	0	0	0		Randomized controlled trial of belladonna and opiate suppository during intravesical onabotulinum toxin A injection.	"BACKGROUND: Intravesical injection with onabotulinum toxin A injection can be performed in-office under local anesthesia. Rectally administered pain medication presents a potentially feasible and previously uninvestigated adjunct to office-based anesthesia protocols. OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of this study was to determine whether adding a belladonna and opiate suppository to standard lidocaine instillation resulted in reduction of bladder injection pain during onabotulinum toxin A injection procedure. STUDY DESIGN: This was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of patients undergoing onabotulinum toxin A bladder injection at a single clinic. Patients age >/=18 years, who met clinical criteria for invasive treatment of refractory urinary symptoms, had previously documented postvoid residual volumes <150 mL, and elected for in-office intravesical onabotulinum toxin A injection were eligible to participate. Participants were randomized by computer-generated block randomization to receive a belladonna and opiate (belladonna alkaloid with morphine 16.2/7.5 mg) or placebo suppository. Suppositories were placed immediately prior to lidocaine-based anesthesia, which all participants received. All participants underwent a standardized injection procedure using the same rigid cystoscope, needle type, and injection pattern (20 injections total). A 0-10 numeric rating scale was used to assess pain intensity before anesthesia and suppository, 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository, after first 10 bladder injections, and immediately after completion of 20 injections. Pain increase during procedure was calculated using the difference between score 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository and score after first 10 bladder injections. Postvoid residual were measured immediately postprocedure and 2 weeks later. Patient satisfaction with pain control was measured using a Likert scale. Our primary outcome was change in pain level from anesthetic baseline to midprocedure (score after first 10 bladder injections to score 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository). A final sample size of 26 patients was needed to have 80% power (alpha = 0.05) to detect a 50% reduction in bladder injection pain during the procedure as defined by our primary outcome. An intent-to-treat approach was used for all analyses. RESULTS: In all, 26 participants were enrolled and randomized with 13 in each study arm. Participants in the treatment group were slightly older than in the placebo group (P = .05); there were no statistically significant differences in medical comorbidities. Median score after first 10 bladder injections to score 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository for the placebo group and treatment group was 4 (range 1-10) and 5 (range 0,9), respectively (P = .94). Median scores immediately after completion of 20 injections for the placebo group and treatment group were 3 (range 0-10) and 2 (range 0,8), respectively (P = .29). There were no significant differences in preinjection pain scores reported before anesthesia and suppository and at 40 minutes after administration of anesthesia and suppository. Postprocedure postvoid residual >200 mL was noted in 5 (38%) of the placebo group and 3 (23%) of the treatment group (P = .67). Two-week postprocedure postvoid residual >200 mL was noted in 3 (25%) of the placebo group and 2 (15%) of the treatment group (P = .64) for an overall rate of 20%. Eleven (84%) participants in each group reported being ""mostly satisfied"" or ""very much satisfied"" with pain control. CONCLUSION: Belladonna and opiate suppository use did not significantly reduce bladder injection pain, or increase risk of urinary retention immediately postprocedure or 2 weeks later. Satisfaction with pain control among onabotulinum toxin A injection patients is high."
29900768	Ketamine	Hyperkalemia	1	0	0	1		HYPERKALEMIA IN TWO JAGUARS ( PANTHERA ONCA) ANESTHETIZED WITH DEXMEDETOMIDINE, KETAMINE, AND ISOFLURANE.	  Two jaguars were anesthetized with dexmedetomidine, ketamine, and isoflurane. Arterial blood samples analyzed shortly after darting revealed no abnormalities. Samples analyzed 2 and 1.5 hr after darting revealed moderate hyperkalemia in both animals (6.8 and 6.2 mEq/L, respectively). Shortly after hyperkalemia was recognized, one jaguar developed electrocardiographic abnormalities (sinoventricular rhythm and widened QRS complexes), and a few minutes later, suffered cardiopulmonary arrest. Resuscitation with chest compressions, intermittent positive-pressure ventilation, and epinephrine was successful, and autonomous breathing and circulation resumed within a few minutes. Anesthesia-related hyperkalemia has been reported in a variety of large felids but has not been reported previously in jaguars. In all reports, alpha-2 adrenergic agonists were used as part of the immobilization protocol. Due to the presumptively high incidence and mortality caused by this complication, frequent monitoring of electrolyte concentrations and prompt treatment of hyperkalemia is recommended when anesthetizing large felids, including jaguars.
29054321	Terlipressin	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Noradrenaline as an alternative medical treatment to terlipressin in the management of hepatorenal syndrome type 1.	
31165303	Imiquimod	Psoriasis	0	0	0	0		A Novel Surfactant-Free O/O Paclitaxel Ointment for the Topical Treatment of Psoriasis.	Psoriasis is an autoimmune disorder disease with pink-colored plaques and excessive proliferation which is hard to be cured completely. The study focuses on the anti-psoriatic efficacy of O/O paclitaxel ointment which can promote the assembly of microtubules and lead to death of overproliferation cells of the psoriasis epidermal. A high-speed shearing method was adopted in preparing the ointment, in which propylene carbonate was used as the internal oil phase to solve paclitaxel completely. It was characterized by the appearance, particle size, rheological behavior, and in vitro release. The amount of paclitaxel retained in normal skin and psoriatic skin was 1.00 +/- 0.50 versus 1.53 +/- 0.48 mug/g for 0.03% PTX ointment, 1.30 +/- 0.39 versus 2.77 +/- 0.49 mug/g for 0.1% PTX ointment, and 2.22 +/- 0.92 versus 6.65 +/- 0.87 mug/g for 0.3% PTX ointment, respectively, which implied that paclitaxel could better retain in inflamed skin than in normal skin; also the amount of drug retained in the skin was proportional to drug content. Paclitaxel ointment displayed good topical tolerance after repeated application on normal mice skin. The therapeutic efficacy of paclitaxel ointment was evaluated with an imiquimod-induced psoriatic model. A significant improvement has been shown both in the phenotypic and histopathological features of psoriatic skin treated with the ointment. There was also a significant reduction in the epidermal thickness compared to the imiquimod group. The findings confirm that the O/O PTX ointment without any surfactant appears to be a promising approach for the treatment of psoriasis.
30992689	Cisplatin	Acute Lung Injury	1	0	0	0		The Effect of Taxifolin on Cisplatin-Induced Pulmonary Damage in Rats: A Biochemical and Histopathological Evaluation.	The effect of taxifolin on cisplatin-induced oxidative pulmonary damage was investigated biochemically and histopathologically in male albino Wistar rats. There were four groups, with six animals in each group: 50 mg/kg of taxifolin plus 2.5 mg/kg of cisplatin (TC) group, 2.5 mg/kg of cisplatin only (CIS) group, 50 mg/kg of taxifolin only (TG) group, and a healthy control group (HG). In terms of the experimental procedure, the animals in the TC and TG groups were first treated via oral gavage. The CIS and HG groups received distilled water as solvent, respectively. One hour later, the TC and CIS groups received cisplatin at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg (injected intraperitoneally). Taxifolin, cisplatin, and the distilled water were administered at the indicated dose and volume, using the same method daily for 14 d. At the end of this period, the animals were killed with a high dosage of thiopental anaesthesia (50 mg/kg). Blood and lung tissue samples were taken for biochemical (malondialdehyde (MDA), myeloperoxidase (MPO), total glutathione (tGSH), and 8-hydroxy-2 deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)) analyses and histopathological examinations. The biochemical and histopathological results in the TC and HG groups were then compared with those in the CIS group. Cisplatin increased the levels of MDA, myeloperoxidase, and 8-OHdG, a marker of oxidative DNA damage, and reduced the amount of tGSH in the lung tissue. Moreover, severe alveolar damage, including oedema and extensive alveolar septal fibrosis, in addition to infiltration of polymorphic nuclear leucocytes and haemorrhagic foci, was observed in the CIS group. These histopathological findings demonstrate that taxifolin provides protection against pulmonary oxidative stress by preventing increases in oxidant parameters and decreases in antioxidants.
30840545	Tamsulosin	Dementia	1	0	0	0		alpha-Blocker and Risk of Dementia in Patients with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: A Nationwide Population Based Study Using the National Health Insurance Service Database.	PURPOSE: A recent study demonstrated that tamsulosin increased the risk of dementia in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. However, this study had a number of limitations. We evaluated the association between alpha-blockers and dementia in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. MATERIALS AND METHODS: From the National Health Insurance Service database we collected and analyzed data on alpha-blockers and dementia in the entire Korean adult population with benign prostatic hyperplasia between January 2011 and December 2011. These patients were followed until September 2017. We tested the effect of alpha-blockers on the risk of dementia using propensity score matched Cox proportional hazard regression models and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. RESULTS: During a mean +/- SD followup of 1,580 +/- 674.3 days all study inclusion and exclusion criteria were met by 59,263 patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia. In the unadjusted cohort the incidence of dementia in the tamsulosin, doxazosin, terazosin, alfuzosin and no medication cohorts were 17.97%, 18.55%, 20.64%, 17.62% and 22.60%, respectively. After propensity score matching the risk of dementia did not significantly differ in the tamsulosin cohort vs the doxazosin and alfuzosin cohorts (HR 1.038, 95% CI 0.960-1.121 and HR 1.008, 95% CI 0.925-1.098), respectively. Compared to the tamsulosin cohort the terazosin cohort had a higher risk of dementia (HR 1.112, 95% CI 1.052-1.196). However, the risk of dementia was significantly lower in the terazosin cohort than in the no medication cohort. CONCLUSIONS: The study findings indicate that benign prostatic hyperplasia medication is not associated with a risk of dementia by duration of use or by type.
30586660	Paroxetine	Hypotension	1	0	0	0		Pharmacologic chaos: severe hypotension from interactions of anesthetics, marijuana, amphetamines, and paroxetine.	
30522528	Mirtazapine	Dystonia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Pisa syndrome associated with mirtazapine: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Mirtazapine is a noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant; its pharmacological profile indicates a low risk for dopaminergic adverse effects. To date, there has been only a single case report of Pisa syndrome associated with mirtazapine. CASE PRESENTATION: The authors report a case involving a 79-year-old woman with bipolar disorder, in whom Pisa syndrome occurred after introduction of mirtazapine, and completely disappeared 3 days after suspension of the drug. CONCLUSIONS: Aspects of this particular case suggest that Pisa syndrome is a possible side effect of Mirtazapine.
30454022	Alemtuzumab	Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	1.0	Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage during alemtuzumab infusion in a patient with multiple sclerosis: a case report.	BACKGROUND: Diffuse alveolar bleeding is a potentially life-threatening condition that can be induced by several drugs. Whereas fatal cases have been reported in patients treated for other indications, no report have so far been published in a patient with multiple sclerosis treated with alemtuzumab. CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of alemtuzumab-induced diffuse alveolar bleeding in a 29 year old woman with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. The patient developed acute shortness of breath, chest pain on inspiration and haemoptysis following the second infusion of alemtuzumab during the first treatment cycle. Computed tomography showed bilateral alveolar opacities. Bronchoscopy and broncho-alveolar lavage showed persistently bloody return with no evidence of infection. The symptoms resolved completely without treatment and control computed tomography performed one week later showed total resolution of pulmonary infiltrates. CONCLUSION: This is the first published report of diffuse alveolar bleeding in a patient with multiple sclerosis treated with alemtuzumab. Four similar cases in patients treated for multiple sclerosis and several fatal cases in patients treated for other conditions are registered at the World Health Organization database of suspected adverse events (VIgiBase(c)), underscoring that this is a serious and possibly under-recognized complication of alemtuzumab which can also occur in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The clinician should consider the possibility of diffuse pulmonary haemorrhage in patients with sudden onset of respiratory distress and haemoptysis following administration of alemtuzumab for multiple sclerosis.
30297249	Gefitinib	Paronychia	0	0	0	0		Papulopustules and paronychia in a lung carcinoma.	
30279015	Mitomycin	Cardiovascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		BOXIT-A Randomised Phase III Placebo-controlled Trial Evaluating the Addition of Celecoxib to Standard Treatment of Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder (CRUK/07/004).	BACKGROUND: Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has a significant risk of recurrence despite adjuvant intravesical therapy. OBJECTIVE: To determine whether celecoxib, a cyclo-oxygenase 2 inhibitor, reduces the risk of recurrence in NMIBC patients receiving standard treatment. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: BOXIT (CRUK/07/004, ISRCTN84681538) is a double-blinded, phase III, randomised controlled trial. Patients aged >/=18 yr with intermediate- or high-risk NMIBC were accrued across 51 UK centres between 1 November 2007 and 23 July 2012. INTERVENTION: Patients were randomised (1:1) to celecoxib 200mg twice daily or placebo for 2 yr. Patients with intermediate-risk NMIBC were recommended to receive six weekly mitomycin C instillations; high-risk NMIBC cases received six weekly bacillus Calmette-Guerin and maintenance therapy. OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The primary endpoint was time to disease recurrence. Analysis was by intention to treat. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 472 patients were randomised (236:236). With median follow-up of 44 mo (interquartile range: 36-57), 3-yr recurrence-free rate (95% confidence interval) was as follows: celecoxib 68% (61-74%) versus placebo 64% (57-70%; hazard ratio [HR] 0.82 [0.60-1.12], p=0.2). There was no difference in high-risk (HR 0.77 [0.52-1.15], p=0.2) or intermediate-risk (HR 0.90 [0.55-1.48], p=0.7) NMIBC. Subgroup analysis suggested that time to recurrence was longer in pT1 NMIBC patients treated with celecoxib compared with those receiving placebo (HR 0.53 [0.30-0.94], interaction test p=0.04). The 3-yr progression rates in high-risk patients were low: 10% (6.5-17%) and 9.7% (6.0-15%) in celecoxib and placebo arms, respectively. Incidence of serious cardiovascular events was higher in celecoxib (5.2%) than in placebo (1.7%) group (difference +3.4% [-0.3% to 7.2%], p=0.07). CONCLUSIONS: BOXIT did not show that celecoxib reduces the risk of recurrence in intermediate- or high-risk NMIBC, although celecoxib was associated with delayed time to recurrence in pT1 NMIBC patients. The increased risk of cardiovascular events does not support the use of celecoxib. PATIENT SUMMARY: Celecoxib was not shown to reduce the risk of recurrence in intermediate- or high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), although celecoxib was associated with delayed time to recurrence in pT1 NMIBC patients. The increased risk of cardiovascular events does not support the use of celecoxib.
30168864	Nivolumab	Pemphigus	1	0	0	0		Atypical pemphigus developed in a patient with urothelial carcinoma treated with nivolumab.	
30144153	Terbinafine	Psoriasis	1	0	0	0		Terbinafine-induced generalized pustular psoriasis in a patient carrying CARD14 mutation.	
29945748	Toluene	Brain Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	Cerebellar infarction following accidental inhalation of toluene-mixed paint.	We report a case of atypical cerebellar infarction following accidental inhalation of toluene mixed paint. An unconscious 57-year-old housewife with hypertension arrived at our emergency department by ambulance. She had been rescued from a basement (30 m(3)) 12 h after exposure to paint containing toluene (34%). On arrival, she was comatose (E(1)V(1)M(1)) with a mild fever (37.4  degrees C). Physical examination showed chemical burns on her buttocks and rales on the left lung. Initial arterial blood gas with 15 L/min of oxygen showed a pH of 7.142, PCO(2) of 47.3 mmHg, and PaO(2) of 204.7 mmHg. She received endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation. Laboratory tests showed elevated white blood cells (26.86 x 10(9)/L), C-reactive protein (0.18 mg/dL), glucose (238 mg/Dl), and CPK (1389 U/L). At 5.5 h after arrival, she became responsive to verbal commands. On day 3, after removal of the endotracheal tube, she began to complain of an occipital headache without neurologic abnormalities. Brain magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) performed on day 6 showed a tiny acute infarction on the right cerebellar hemisphere. We serially measured urinary hippuric acid concentrations (reference range, </=2.5 g/g creatinine) from 74 h (3.88) after hospital arrival to 218 h (0.5). She was discharged on day 14. Herein we presented a near fatal toluene intoxication (>45,000 mg/m(3) estimated based on the basement volume and quantity of paint used) with atypical cerebellar infarction, compared with prior findings of bilateral involvement or reversibility.
29667767	Ipilimumab	Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1	1	0	0	0		Type 1 diabetes in a melanoma patient treated with ipilimumab after nivolumab.	
29284113	Human Growth Hormone	Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal	1	0	0	0		Thoracoabdominal Aneurysm in a Professional Body Builder.	
29178032	Lithium Chloride	Acidosis, Renal Tubular	0	0	0	0		Lithium increases ammonium excretion leading to altered urinary acid-base buffer composition.	Previous reports identify a voltage dependent distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) secondary to lithium (Li(+)) salt administration. This was based on the inability of Li(+)-treated patients to increase the urine-blood (U-B) pCO(2) when challenged with NaHCO(3) and, the ability of sodium neutral phosphate or Na(2)SO(4) administration to restore U-B pCO(2) in experimental animal models. The underlying mechanisms for the Li(+)-induced dRTA are still unknown. To address this point, a 7 days time course of the urinary acid-base parameters was investigated in rats challenged with LiCl, LiCitrate, NaCl, or NaCitrate. LiCl induced the largest polyuria and a mild metabolic acidosis. Li(+)-treatment induced a biphasic response. In the first 2 days, proper urine volume and acidification occurred, while from the 3rd day of treatment, polyuria developed progressively. In this latter phase, the LiCl-treated group progressively excreted more NH(4)(+) and less pCO(2), suggesting that NH(3)/NH(4)(+) became the main urinary buffer. This physiological parameter was corroborated by the upregulation of NBCn1 (a marker of increased ammonium recycling) in the inner stripe of outer medulla of LiCl treated rats. Finally, by investigating NH(4)(+) excretion in ENaC-cKO mice, a model resistant to Li(+)-induced polyuria, a primary role of the CD was confirmed. By definition, dRTA is characterized by deficient urinary ammonium excretion. Our data question the presence of a voltage-dependent Li(+)-induced dRTA in rats treated with LiCl for 7 days and the data suggest that the alkaline urine pH induced by NH(3)/NH(4)(+) as the main buffer has lead to the interpretation dRTA in previous studies.
29178032	Sodium Chloride	Acidosis, Renal Tubular	0	0	0	0		Lithium increases ammonium excretion leading to altered urinary acid-base buffer composition.	Previous reports identify a voltage dependent distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) secondary to lithium (Li(+)) salt administration. This was based on the inability of Li(+)-treated patients to increase the urine-blood (U-B) pCO(2) when challenged with NaHCO(3) and, the ability of sodium neutral phosphate or Na(2)SO(4) administration to restore U-B pCO(2) in experimental animal models. The underlying mechanisms for the Li(+)-induced dRTA are still unknown. To address this point, a 7 days time course of the urinary acid-base parameters was investigated in rats challenged with LiCl, LiCitrate, NaCl, or NaCitrate. LiCl induced the largest polyuria and a mild metabolic acidosis. Li(+)-treatment induced a biphasic response. In the first 2 days, proper urine volume and acidification occurred, while from the 3rd day of treatment, polyuria developed progressively. In this latter phase, the LiCl-treated group progressively excreted more NH(4)(+) and less pCO(2), suggesting that NH(3)/NH(4)(+) became the main urinary buffer. This physiological parameter was corroborated by the upregulation of NBCn1 (a marker of increased ammonium recycling) in the inner stripe of outer medulla of LiCl treated rats. Finally, by investigating NH(4)(+) excretion in ENaC-cKO mice, a model resistant to Li(+)-induced polyuria, a primary role of the CD was confirmed. By definition, dRTA is characterized by deficient urinary ammonium excretion. Our data question the presence of a voltage-dependent Li(+)-induced dRTA in rats treated with LiCl for 7 days and the data suggest that the alkaline urine pH induced by NH(3)/NH(4)(+) as the main buffer has lead to the interpretation dRTA in previous studies.
29178032	Sodium Citrate	Acidosis, Renal Tubular	0	0	0	0		Lithium increases ammonium excretion leading to altered urinary acid-base buffer composition.	Previous reports identify a voltage dependent distal renal tubular acidosis (dRTA) secondary to lithium (Li(+)) salt administration. This was based on the inability of Li(+)-treated patients to increase the urine-blood (U-B) pCO(2) when challenged with NaHCO(3) and, the ability of sodium neutral phosphate or Na(2)SO(4) administration to restore U-B pCO(2) in experimental animal models. The underlying mechanisms for the Li(+)-induced dRTA are still unknown. To address this point, a 7 days time course of the urinary acid-base parameters was investigated in rats challenged with LiCl, LiCitrate, NaCl, or NaCitrate. LiCl induced the largest polyuria and a mild metabolic acidosis. Li(+)-treatment induced a biphasic response. In the first 2 days, proper urine volume and acidification occurred, while from the 3rd day of treatment, polyuria developed progressively. In this latter phase, the LiCl-treated group progressively excreted more NH(4)(+) and less pCO(2), suggesting that NH(3)/NH(4)(+) became the main urinary buffer. This physiological parameter was corroborated by the upregulation of NBCn1 (a marker of increased ammonium recycling) in the inner stripe of outer medulla of LiCl treated rats. Finally, by investigating NH(4)(+) excretion in ENaC-cKO mice, a model resistant to Li(+)-induced polyuria, a primary role of the CD was confirmed. By definition, dRTA is characterized by deficient urinary ammonium excretion. Our data question the presence of a voltage-dependent Li(+)-induced dRTA in rats treated with LiCl for 7 days and the data suggest that the alkaline urine pH induced by NH(3)/NH(4)(+) as the main buffer has lead to the interpretation dRTA in previous studies.
29146045	Amisulpride	Stomatognathic Diseases	1	0	0	0		Amisulpride Induced Oropharyngeal Dyskinesia in a patient with Schizophrenia: A case report and review of literature.	
29089623	Terfenadine	Prostatic Neoplasms	0	0	0	0		Enzalutamide inhibits testosterone-induced growth of human prostate cancer xenografts in zebrafish and can induce bradycardia.	The zebrafish has become a popular human tumour xenograft model, particularly for solid tumours including prostate cancer (PCa). To date PCa xenotransplantation studies in zebrafish have not been performed in the presence of testosterone, even when employing androgen-dependent cell models, such as the LNCaP cell line. Thus, with the goal of more faithfully modelling the hormonal milieu in which PCa develops in humans, we sought to determine the effects of exogenous testosterone on the growth of LNCaP, or androgen-independent C4-2 cells xenografted into zebrafish embryos. Testosterone significantly increased engrafted LNCaP proliferation compared to control xenografts, which could be inhibited by co-administration of the anti-androgen receptor drug, enzalutamide. By contrast, C4-2 cell growth was not affected by either testosterone or enzalutamide. Enzalutamide also induced bradycardia and death in zebrafish embryos in a dose-dependent manner and strongly synergized with the potassium-channel blocking agent, terfenadine, known to induce long QT syndrome and cardiac arrhythmia. Together, these data not only indicate that testosterone administration should be considered in all PCa xenograft studies in zebrafish but also highlights the unique opportunity of this preclinical platform to simultaneously evaluate efficacy and toxicity of novel therapies and/or protective agents towards developing safer and more effective PCa treatments.
28971521	Cetuximab	Necrosis	1	0	0	0		Case of cetuximab-induced disseminated necrotic and maculopapular eruptions: Involvement of an epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor with epidermal necrosis.	
28944534	Ipilimumab	Pemphigoid, Bullous	1	0	0	0		Bullous pemphigoid induced by ipilimumab in a patient with metastatic malignant melanoma after unsuccessful treatment with nivolumab.	
28891241	Nivolumab	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Infliximab for severe colitis associated with nivolumab followed by ipilimumab.	
28791981	Isotretinoin	Dental Caries	1	1	0	0	0.0	The oral adverse effects of isotretinoin treatment in acne vulgaris patients: A prospective, case-control study.	BACKGROUND: Isotretinoin is the most effective therapy to treat severe acne vulgaris and its systemic adverse effects have been well documented, but little is known on dental side effects over the course of treatment. OBJECTIVES: This prospective case-control study aimed to evaluate the oral adverse effects of isotretinoin in Turkish patients with acne vulgaris; compare oral conditions between patients and normal controls; and investigate the association between salivary parameters and International Caries Detection and Assessment System (ICDAS) scores. MATERIALS AND METHODS: For 6 months, the patients (n = 45) received isotretinoin daily (0.5 mg/kg). The age-matched untreated controls (n = 45) were patients without acne. Both groups were examined before the study and at 6 months for salivary flow, buffer capacity, microbiologic tests, and caries status (based on the ICDAS). Salivary parameters and ICDAS scores were analyzed by Spearman's rank correlations. Data were statistically analyzed by the Mann-Whitney U test, Wilcoxon signed rank tests, and McNemar's Chi-square tests (P < 0.05). RESULTS: Twenty-two isotretinoin-treated patients and 18 controls completed the study. At baseline, the groups were not significantly different in the evaluated parameters (P > 0.05). At 6 months in the isotretinoin-treated group, salivary flow and buffer capacity significantly decreased, and the ICDAS scores significantly increased (P < 0.05). The changes in these criteria from baseline were insignificant in the controls (P > 0.05). Intraoral pathogen counts were not significantly different between the groups, compared to baseline (P > 0.05). Stimulated salivary parameters in both groups were not correlated significantly with the ICDAS scores. CONCLUSIONS: Isotretinoin significantly affected salivary flow, buffer capacity, caries lesion activity scores for 6 months. However, salivary parameters and caries lesion activity scores had no significant correlations.
28655407	Progesterone	Liver Cirrhosis	0	0	0	0		Turner syndrome as a cause of liver cirrhosis.	
28225147	Ipilimumab	Facial Paralysis	1	0	0	0		Bilateral anterior uveitis and unilateral facial palsy due to ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma in an individual with human leukocyte antigen DR4: A case report.	
28225147	Nivolumab	Facial Paralysis	1	0	0	0		Bilateral anterior uveitis and unilateral facial palsy due to ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma in an individual with human leukocyte antigen DR4: A case report.	
28098118	Calcium	Hypocalcemia	0	0	0	0		Safety of denosumab in dialysis patients on calcium and vitamin D supplements.	
30947751	Ferric Oxide, Saccharated	Acute Kidney Injury	0	1	0	0		Protocol and baseline data for a prospective open-label explorative randomized single-center comparative study to determine the effects of various intravenous iron preparations on markers of oxidative stress and kidney injury in chronic kidney disease (IRON-CKD).	"BACKGROUND: Intravenous (IV) iron is frequently used to treat iron deficiency/anemia in patients who are unable to tolerate oral iron or the oral iron is not sufficient toreplete iron requirements. However, safety concerns regarding the potential increase in oxidative stress and other adverse effects persist and it remains unclear whether all iron preparations are equivalent. Indeed, the comparative risk of adverse events with IV iron preparations has not been extensively assessed. We hypothesize that IV iron leads to changes in oxidative stress, endothelial function, and potential renal damage depending on the iron formulation (related to the generation of ""free"" or catalytic labile iron) and this may result in more tubular and glomerular injury manifested as increased proteinuria and raised neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) levels in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). METHODS: IRON-CKD is a prospective, open-label, explorative, randomized, single-center study designed to compare the safety and efficacy of three parenteral iron preparations: low-molecular-weight iron dextran-Cosmofer, iron sucrose-Venofer, and iron isomaltoside-Monofer. The study includes 40 adults who have established CKD stages 3-5 and serum ferritin (SF) of less than 200 mug/L or transferrin saturation (TS) of less than 20% (or both); they were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to 200 mg iron dextran, 200 mg iron sucrose, 200 mg iron isomaltoside, or 1000 mg iron isomaltoside. After randomization, participants undergo baseline assessments and then an iron infusion. Each participant is followed up at 2 h, day 1, week 1, and months 1 and 3. At each follow-up visit, patients undergo clinical review, measurement of pulse wave velocity (PWV), blood tests for renal function, and collection of serum/plasma samples for oxidative stress and inflammatory markers. The primary outcomes are measures of oxidative stress, inflammatory markers, and markers of acute renal injury in comparison with baseline measures of each iron preparation and between each of the iron preparations. Secondary objectives include effects on hematinic profiles and hemoglobin concentrations, changes in arterial stiffness, incidence of significant side effects, and change in patients' quality of life. RESULTS: Between October 2015 and April 2018, 521 individuals were identified as potential participants; 216 were contacted, 56 expressed an interest, 49 attended a screening visit, and 40 were confirmed to meet the eligibility criteria and were randomly assigned. The mean age was 58.8 (standard error of the mean 2.2) years, and 23 (58%) were male. All patients were white and English-speaking. The mean SF was 68.8 mug/L, TS was 21.4%, and haemoglobin was 122.6 g/L at randomization for the whole group. The mean estimated glomerular filtration rate was 28.2 mL/min/1.73 m2 the urinary protein/ creatinine ratio was 154.2 mg/mmol, and CRP was 7.5 mg/L. DISCUSSION: IRON-CKD will provide important information on the short-term effects of three preparations of IV iron in CKD patients with biochemical functional or absolute iron deficiency on measures of oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial function, and renal injury. TRIAL REGISTRATION: European Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT) number 2010-020452-64 ."
30947751	Ferric Oxide, Saccharated	Proteinuria	0	1	0	0		Protocol and baseline data for a prospective open-label explorative randomized single-center comparative study to determine the effects of various intravenous iron preparations on markers of oxidative stress and kidney injury in chronic kidney disease (IRON-CKD).	"BACKGROUND: Intravenous (IV) iron is frequently used to treat iron deficiency/anemia in patients who are unable to tolerate oral iron or the oral iron is not sufficient toreplete iron requirements. However, safety concerns regarding the potential increase in oxidative stress and other adverse effects persist and it remains unclear whether all iron preparations are equivalent. Indeed, the comparative risk of adverse events with IV iron preparations has not been extensively assessed. We hypothesize that IV iron leads to changes in oxidative stress, endothelial function, and potential renal damage depending on the iron formulation (related to the generation of ""free"" or catalytic labile iron) and this may result in more tubular and glomerular injury manifested as increased proteinuria and raised neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) levels in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). METHODS: IRON-CKD is a prospective, open-label, explorative, randomized, single-center study designed to compare the safety and efficacy of three parenteral iron preparations: low-molecular-weight iron dextran-Cosmofer, iron sucrose-Venofer, and iron isomaltoside-Monofer. The study includes 40 adults who have established CKD stages 3-5 and serum ferritin (SF) of less than 200 mug/L or transferrin saturation (TS) of less than 20% (or both); they were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to 200 mg iron dextran, 200 mg iron sucrose, 200 mg iron isomaltoside, or 1000 mg iron isomaltoside. After randomization, participants undergo baseline assessments and then an iron infusion. Each participant is followed up at 2 h, day 1, week 1, and months 1 and 3. At each follow-up visit, patients undergo clinical review, measurement of pulse wave velocity (PWV), blood tests for renal function, and collection of serum/plasma samples for oxidative stress and inflammatory markers. The primary outcomes are measures of oxidative stress, inflammatory markers, and markers of acute renal injury in comparison with baseline measures of each iron preparation and between each of the iron preparations. Secondary objectives include effects on hematinic profiles and hemoglobin concentrations, changes in arterial stiffness, incidence of significant side effects, and change in patients' quality of life. RESULTS: Between October 2015 and April 2018, 521 individuals were identified as potential participants; 216 were contacted, 56 expressed an interest, 49 attended a screening visit, and 40 were confirmed to meet the eligibility criteria and were randomly assigned. The mean age was 58.8 (standard error of the mean 2.2) years, and 23 (58%) were male. All patients were white and English-speaking. The mean SF was 68.8 mug/L, TS was 21.4%, and haemoglobin was 122.6 g/L at randomization for the whole group. The mean estimated glomerular filtration rate was 28.2 mL/min/1.73 m2 the urinary protein/ creatinine ratio was 154.2 mg/mmol, and CRP was 7.5 mg/L. DISCUSSION: IRON-CKD will provide important information on the short-term effects of three preparations of IV iron in CKD patients with biochemical functional or absolute iron deficiency on measures of oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial function, and renal injury. TRIAL REGISTRATION: European Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT) number 2010-020452-64 ."
30947751	Iron-Dextran Complex	Proteinuria	0	1	0	0		Protocol and baseline data for a prospective open-label explorative randomized single-center comparative study to determine the effects of various intravenous iron preparations on markers of oxidative stress and kidney injury in chronic kidney disease (IRON-CKD).	"BACKGROUND: Intravenous (IV) iron is frequently used to treat iron deficiency/anemia in patients who are unable to tolerate oral iron or the oral iron is not sufficient toreplete iron requirements. However, safety concerns regarding the potential increase in oxidative stress and other adverse effects persist and it remains unclear whether all iron preparations are equivalent. Indeed, the comparative risk of adverse events with IV iron preparations has not been extensively assessed. We hypothesize that IV iron leads to changes in oxidative stress, endothelial function, and potential renal damage depending on the iron formulation (related to the generation of ""free"" or catalytic labile iron) and this may result in more tubular and glomerular injury manifested as increased proteinuria and raised neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) levels in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). METHODS: IRON-CKD is a prospective, open-label, explorative, randomized, single-center study designed to compare the safety and efficacy of three parenteral iron preparations: low-molecular-weight iron dextran-Cosmofer, iron sucrose-Venofer, and iron isomaltoside-Monofer. The study includes 40 adults who have established CKD stages 3-5 and serum ferritin (SF) of less than 200 mug/L or transferrin saturation (TS) of less than 20% (or both); they were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to 200 mg iron dextran, 200 mg iron sucrose, 200 mg iron isomaltoside, or 1000 mg iron isomaltoside. After randomization, participants undergo baseline assessments and then an iron infusion. Each participant is followed up at 2 h, day 1, week 1, and months 1 and 3. At each follow-up visit, patients undergo clinical review, measurement of pulse wave velocity (PWV), blood tests for renal function, and collection of serum/plasma samples for oxidative stress and inflammatory markers. The primary outcomes are measures of oxidative stress, inflammatory markers, and markers of acute renal injury in comparison with baseline measures of each iron preparation and between each of the iron preparations. Secondary objectives include effects on hematinic profiles and hemoglobin concentrations, changes in arterial stiffness, incidence of significant side effects, and change in patients' quality of life. RESULTS: Between October 2015 and April 2018, 521 individuals were identified as potential participants; 216 were contacted, 56 expressed an interest, 49 attended a screening visit, and 40 were confirmed to meet the eligibility criteria and were randomly assigned. The mean age was 58.8 (standard error of the mean 2.2) years, and 23 (58%) were male. All patients were white and English-speaking. The mean SF was 68.8 mug/L, TS was 21.4%, and haemoglobin was 122.6 g/L at randomization for the whole group. The mean estimated glomerular filtration rate was 28.2 mL/min/1.73 m2 the urinary protein/ creatinine ratio was 154.2 mg/mmol, and CRP was 7.5 mg/L. DISCUSSION: IRON-CKD will provide important information on the short-term effects of three preparations of IV iron in CKD patients with biochemical functional or absolute iron deficiency on measures of oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial function, and renal injury. TRIAL REGISTRATION: European Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT) number 2010-020452-64 ."
30253037	Sofosbuvir	Infections	0	0	0	0		Association of IL-1beta, IL-1RN, and ESR1 genes polymorphism with risk of infection and response to sofosbuvir plus daclatasvir combination therapy in hepatitis C virus genotype-4 patients.	"Sofosbuvir (SOF) and daclatasvir combination with or without ribavirin proved to be effective and safe in the treatment of hepatitis C virus infection. The study aimed to assess the efficacy of (SOF plus daclatasvir) combination + ribavirin in the treatment of treatment-experienced HCV genotype 4 Egyptian patients and to investigate the impact of IL-1beta _31, IL-1beta _511, and IL-1RN and T29C of ESR1 genes polymorphisms on treatment outcome. The study also aimed to assess the effect of the treatment on liver fibrosis. The sustained virologic response was assessed at 0, 4, 12, and 24 weeks from the beginning of treatment by RT-PCR. IL-1beta _31, IL-1beta _511, IL-1RN, and T29C genes polymorphisms were examined by PCR-based techniques in two groups of patients (responders and non-responders) and a control group of healthy subjects. A significant association between IL-1beta_511 gene polymorphism and SOF/DAV-induced response was observed, where the ""CC"" genotype was the most frequent in responders while the ""CT"" genotype was the most frequent among non-responders (P = 0.0001, OR = 39; 95% CI = 4.7-316). IL-1RN gene polymorphism also showed significant associations with response to treatment, genotypes that include allele ""1"" were the most frequent in responders, particularly the homozygous genotype ""1/1"" (P = 0.0001, OR = 2.3; 95% CI = 1.57-3.2). However, the genotypes ""4/4"" and ""2/4"" were the most frequent in non-responders; (P = 0.0001). At least 71% of the responders carry allele ""1"" while 54% of non-responders were allele ""4"" carriers (P value = 0.0001. OR = 2.8; 95% CI = 6.4-134.2). Liver fibrosis is significantly improved regardless of the response. (c) 2018 IUBMB Life, 70(11):1156-1163, 2018."
29890559	Gabapentin	Eosinophilia	1	1	0	0	1.0	Severe eosinophilic colitis caused by neuropathic agents in a patient with chronic fatigue syndrome and functional abdominal pain: case report and review of the literature.	Eosinophilic colitis is a rare clinical condition that belongs to the group of eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders. Its occurrence can be primary or secondary to infection, medications, or autoimmune/hematological conditions. We present a case of a young female adult with severe chronic fatigue syndrome, widespread chronic pain, including functional abdominal pain, who developed severe eosinophilic colitis following successive treatments with gabapentin and pregabalin. On both occasions, symptoms manifested as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and eosinophilia and improved upon discontinuation of the medications. Magnetic resonance imaging of the small bowel demonstrated an ascending colon colitis, and endoscopic investigations confirmed florid colitis mainly in the ascending colon with biopsies demonstrating a dense eosinophilic infiltrate with micro-abscesses. Serum eosinophil counts correlated well with the timing of the agents' administration. There was no other organ involvement. Symptoms improved upon discontinuation of the drugs and steroid administration. Eosinophilic colitis is an exceptionally rare entity and its mechanism of action is still unclear. Suspicion of eosinophilic colitis should be raised if a patient presents with abdominal pain, diarrhea, and peripheral eosinophilia following treatment with pregabalin or gabapentin.
31399423	Finasteride	Mental Disorders	0	0	0	0		Post-finasteride syndrome.	
31124535	Ranibizumab	Endophthalmitis	1	0	0	0		Post-Ranibizumab injection endophthalmitis in aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity.	A preterm infant with zone 1 aggressive posterior retinopathy of prematurity developed infectious endophthalmitis after intravitreal injection of ranibizumab. Urgent empirical intravitreal therapy with vancomycin, ceftazidime, and dexamethasone along with intravenous therapy with amikacin and meropenem helped in early resolution. Vascularization/activity of disease subsided on follow-up, media cleared, and laser photocoagulation was completed. Later the disease reactivated, developed vitreous membranes and central retinal traction, for which 25-gauge lens-sparing vitrectomy was performed. Emergent treatment helped in salvaging the eye from both aggressive ROP disease and devastating endophthalmitis. Rationale approach to such a case is being discussed.
29776681	Sulpiride	Restless Legs Syndrome	1	0	0	0		Levosulpiride-Induced Restless Leg Syndrome: A Case Report.	
31168192	Sunitinib	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	1	1.0	UNCOMMON SIDE EFFECTS OF SUNITINIB THERAPY IN A PATIENT WITH METASTATIC RENAL CELL CANCER: CASE REPORT.	- Sunitinib is an orally administered multikinase inhibitor. This therapy can provoke uncommon side effects such as pancytopenia, tumor lysis syndrome, cardiac disorders, thromboembolic incidents, intestinal perforation, pancreatitis, acute renal failure, etc. We report a case of a 63-year-old female admitted to the hospital due to abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and elevated blood pressure. One month earlier, sunitinib therapy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma was initiated. During the first cycle of therapy, after three weeks of sunitinib 50 mg daily, symptoms started and she stopped taking the drug. At admission, laboratory tests revealed elevated serum and urine amylase, C-reactive protein, urea and creatinine, and lowered platelet and leukocyte counts and hemoglobin value. Urine test showed proteinuria, erythrocyturia, leukocyturia and granulated cylinder. The patient was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis grade III, acute renal failure grade II, pancytopenia and urinary infection, and was hospitalized for five days. She was treated symptomatically and with antibiotic therapy because of persistently elevated C-reactive protein and pathologic urinary sediment, which led to subjective and clinical improvement. Acute pancreatitis, renal insufficiency and pancytopenia are rarely described side effects of sunitinib therapy, and clear connection between these conditions and drug activity is not yet determined. Medical specialists who prescribe and treat patients with sunitinib should be aware of the possible occurrence of these conditions and perform regular checkups of sunitinib treated patients.
31168192	Sunitinib	Pancreatitis	1	1	0	1	1.0	UNCOMMON SIDE EFFECTS OF SUNITINIB THERAPY IN A PATIENT WITH METASTATIC RENAL CELL CANCER: CASE REPORT.	- Sunitinib is an orally administered multikinase inhibitor. This therapy can provoke uncommon side effects such as pancytopenia, tumor lysis syndrome, cardiac disorders, thromboembolic incidents, intestinal perforation, pancreatitis, acute renal failure, etc. We report a case of a 63-year-old female admitted to the hospital due to abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and elevated blood pressure. One month earlier, sunitinib therapy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma was initiated. During the first cycle of therapy, after three weeks of sunitinib 50 mg daily, symptoms started and she stopped taking the drug. At admission, laboratory tests revealed elevated serum and urine amylase, C-reactive protein, urea and creatinine, and lowered platelet and leukocyte counts and hemoglobin value. Urine test showed proteinuria, erythrocyturia, leukocyturia and granulated cylinder. The patient was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis grade III, acute renal failure grade II, pancytopenia and urinary infection, and was hospitalized for five days. She was treated symptomatically and with antibiotic therapy because of persistently elevated C-reactive protein and pathologic urinary sediment, which led to subjective and clinical improvement. Acute pancreatitis, renal insufficiency and pancytopenia are rarely described side effects of sunitinib therapy, and clear connection between these conditions and drug activity is not yet determined. Medical specialists who prescribe and treat patients with sunitinib should be aware of the possible occurrence of these conditions and perform regular checkups of sunitinib treated patients.
31168192	Sunitinib	Pancytopenia	1	1	0	1	1.0	UNCOMMON SIDE EFFECTS OF SUNITINIB THERAPY IN A PATIENT WITH METASTATIC RENAL CELL CANCER: CASE REPORT.	- Sunitinib is an orally administered multikinase inhibitor. This therapy can provoke uncommon side effects such as pancytopenia, tumor lysis syndrome, cardiac disorders, thromboembolic incidents, intestinal perforation, pancreatitis, acute renal failure, etc. We report a case of a 63-year-old female admitted to the hospital due to abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and elevated blood pressure. One month earlier, sunitinib therapy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma was initiated. During the first cycle of therapy, after three weeks of sunitinib 50 mg daily, symptoms started and she stopped taking the drug. At admission, laboratory tests revealed elevated serum and urine amylase, C-reactive protein, urea and creatinine, and lowered platelet and leukocyte counts and hemoglobin value. Urine test showed proteinuria, erythrocyturia, leukocyturia and granulated cylinder. The patient was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis grade III, acute renal failure grade II, pancytopenia and urinary infection, and was hospitalized for five days. She was treated symptomatically and with antibiotic therapy because of persistently elevated C-reactive protein and pathologic urinary sediment, which led to subjective and clinical improvement. Acute pancreatitis, renal insufficiency and pancytopenia are rarely described side effects of sunitinib therapy, and clear connection between these conditions and drug activity is not yet determined. Medical specialists who prescribe and treat patients with sunitinib should be aware of the possible occurrence of these conditions and perform regular checkups of sunitinib treated patients.
31068558	Clopidogrel	Hemophilia A	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Acquired hemophilia A with high-titer factor VIII inhibitor developing subsequent to clopidogrel administration].	An 80-year-old male was referred to our department for prolonged APTT (activated partial thromboplastin time) and subcutaneous hemorrhage. His medical history comprised alcoholic liver cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and peripheral artery disease (PAD). For refractory HCC, he had received transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and was followed up regularly at our hospital. He underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for PAD 10 months ago, and dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and cilostazol was initiated. Cilostazol was discontinued owing to subcutaneous hemorrhage 6 months ago. The prolonged APTT level, inhibitor pattern by cross-mixing test, and the presence of the inhibitor against factor VIII (449 Bethesda unit/ml) corroborated acquired hemophilia A (AHA). Thus, clopidogrel was discontinued for possible drug-induced AHA. After 4-week oral corticosteroid therapy, the APTT level recovered to normal. This case highlights two distinct features as follows: (1) possible relation to clopidogrel; and (2) despite extremely high titer of factor VIII inhibitor, his bleeding episodes were managed without antihemorrhagic agents. Here we present a case of clopidogrel-related AHA. Further accumulation of such cases is warranted to determine the potential correlation with clopidogrel and AHA.
29946683	Nevirapine	Depression	1	0	0	0		Depression and Suicidal Ideation Among HIV-Infected Adults Receiving Efavirenz Versus Nevirapine in Uganda: A Prospective Cohort Study.	BACKGROUND: Evidence regarding potential adverse neuropsychiatric effects of efavirenz is conflicting, and data from sub-Saharan Africa, where 70% of persons living with HIV (PLHIV) reside and efavirenz is used as first-line therapy, are limited. OBJECTIVE: To estimate associations between efavirenz use and depression and suicidal ideation among PLHIV in Uganda. DESIGN: Prospective observational cohort study. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01596322). SETTING: Mbarara, Uganda. PARTICIPANTS: Adult PLHIV enrolled at the start of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and observed every 3 to 4 months from 2005 to 2015. MEASUREMENTS: The exposure of interest was time-varying efavirenz use, defined as use during the 7 days and in 60 or more of the 90 days before a study visit, compared with nevirapine use. Self-reported outcomes were depression, defined as a mean score greater than 1.75 on the Hopkins Symptom Checklist depression subscale, and suicidal ideation. Multivariable-adjusted generalized estimating equations (GEE) logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression, and marginal structural models were fit to estimate the association between efavirenz use and the risk for depression and suicidal ideation. RESULTS: 694 participants (median age, 33 years; median pretreatment CD4+ count, 1.8 x 109 cells/L) contributed 1200 person-years of observation (460 person-years receiving efavirenz). No baseline differences in depression or suicidal ideation were found between patients ever exposed to efavirenz and those never exposed to efavirenz and receiving nevirapine (P > 0.80 for both). Of 305 participants ever-exposed to efavirenz, 61 (20.0%) and 19 (6.2%) had depression and suicidal ideation, respectively, on at least 1 follow-up visit, compared with 125 (32.1%) and 47 (12.1%) of the 389 who received nevirapine. In adjusted GEE models, efavirenz use was associated with decreased odds of depression compared with nevirapine use (adjusted odds ratio, 0.62 [95% CI, 0.40 to 0.96]) and was not significantly associated with suicidal ideation (adjusted odds ratio, 0.61 [CI, 0.30 to 1.25]). Time-to-event and marginal structural models yielded similar estimates. LIMITATION: Nonrandom assignment to treatment and substantial differences between the efavirenz and nevirapine groups. CONCLUSION: No evidence was found that use of efavirenz in first-line ART increased the risk for depression or suicidal ideation compared with nevirapine use among PLHIV in Uganda. PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Institutes of Health.
31250422	Carvedilol	Hallucinations	1	0	0	1	1.0	The Man Who Saw Things on Carvedilol.	The newer generation non selective vasodilating beta adrenergic blocking agent Carvedilol, also has an alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonistic effect and is widely used in treating various cardiovascular diseases. It is a selective alpha and non-selective beta blocker. It's side effects are vast and not limited to any particular organ system, the neuropsychiatric adverse effects include; somnolence, nervousness, sleep disorder, aggravated depression, vivid dreams, delirium, psychosis, impaired concentration, abnormal thinking, paroniria, and emotional lability. Hallucinations are rarely reported and as far as we know the only reported couple of cases were on metoprolol and propranolol, none has been reported with Carvedilol.
31039771	Sunitinib	Hypothyroidism	1	1	0	0	0.0	Iotampact of sunitinib-induced hypothyroidism on survival of patients with metastatic renal cancer.	BACKGROUND: Sunitinib plays an important role in managing the metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC). Sunitinib-induced hypothyroidism is a common side-effect of the drug. There have been attempts to link hypothyroidism with a better clinical outcome in sunitinib-treated (mRCC) patients. Our aim was to relate the impact of hypothyroidism to the survival of these patients. METHODS: We have evaluated 70 patients with mRCC that received sunitinib as a first line treatment. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) was measured at baseline, after 15 days of treatment (day-15) and at the end of the second cycle (day-75). Biomarker data and correlations with response were analysed with Microsoft Excel. Comparison results from Student's t-test with a p less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant. Kaplan-Meyer and log-rank tests were performed using GraphPad Prism 5 for Windows. RESULTS: Regarding the response to treatment, a progression-free survival (PFS) of 9.47 months and an overall survival (OS) of 22.03 months were demonstrated. Our data are consistent with published data by other authors. On day-15 from the beginning of the treatment an important number of patients exhibited a TSH elevation. On day-15 42.86% had a TSH over the upper normal limit and 50.0% at the end of the second cycle (day-75). TSH increased earlier in patients that exhibited an objective response (x 3.33 times the baseline values on day-15) than patients that exhibited disease stabilisation (x 2.18) or disease progression (x 1.59). Early increases in TSH were associated with a longer PFS (11.92 vs. 8.82 months, p = 0.0476) and a longer OS (3.10 vs. 1.08 years, p = 0.0011). CONCLUSIONS: Early TSH-increase is associated with a clinical benefit. The patients that showed at least a twofold increase of their baseline TSH, responded to therapy by stabilisation or by regression of disease. This is the only study to our knowledge which shows that early increases - 2 weeks from starting the treatment - in TSH levels have a prognostic value. Both PFS and OS of the patients who demonstrated a higher than a twofold rise were significantly longer than the PFS and the OS of the patients that presented a lower or no TSH-increase.
31017265	Adenine	Chromosome Aberrations	1	1	0	0	0.0	Brca1 is involved in tolerance to adefovir dipivoxil‑induced DNA damage.	Nucleos(t)ide analogues (NAs) are currently the most important anti‑viral treatment option for patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Adefovir dipivoxil (ADV), a diester pro‑drug of adefovir, has been widely used for the clinical therapy of hepatitis B virus infection. It has been previously reported that adefovir induced chromosomal aberrations (CAs) in the in vitro human peripheral blood lymphocyte assay, while the genotoxic mechanism remains elusive. To evaluate the possible mechanisms, the genotoxic effects of ADV on the TK6 and DT40 cell lines, as well as DNA repair‑deficient variants of DT40 cells, were assessed in the present study. A karyotype assay revealed ADV‑induced CAs, particularly chromosomal breaks, in wild‑type DT40 and TK6 cells. A gamma‑H2AX foci formation assay confirmed the presence of DNA damage following treatment with ADV. Furthermore, Brca1‑/‑ DT40 cells exhibited an increased sensitivity to ADV, while the knockdown of various other DNA damage‑associated genes did not markedly affect the sensitivity. These comprehensive genetic studies identified the genotoxic capacity of ADV and suggested that Brca1 may be involved in the tolerance of ADV‑induced DNA damage. These results may contribute to the development of novel drugs against CHB with higher therapeutic efficacy and less genotoxicity.
30848181	Everolimus	Hyperlipidemias	1	0	0	0		Pneumonia in a patient with kidney transplant treated with alirocumab and everolimus.	
30799422	Cisplatin	Exophthalmos	1	1	1	1	1.0	A Rare Case of Mixed Adenoneuroendocrine Carcinoma (MANEC) of the Gastroesophageal Junction with HER2/neu Overexpression and Distinct Orbital and Optic Nerve Toxicity after Intravenous Administration of Cisplatin.	BACKGROUND: Mixed adenoneuroendocrine carcinomas (MANECs) are rare malignancies with both neuroendocrine and non-neuroendocrine components. To date, the prognosis of gastroenteropancreatic MANECs remains dismal, and treatment options are mainly based on guidelines for the treatment of pure neuroendocrine carcinomas or small cell lung cancer. Established first-line therapy in the metastatic situation is cisplatin and etoposide. Platinum derivatives are known to cause a variety of side effects also involving the visual system. Severe orbital and optic nerve toxicities have been described mainly after intracarotid infusion of cisplatin. CASE REPORT: Herein we report a rare case of a 60-year-old male patient suffering from MANEC of the gastroesophageal junction with HER2/neu overexpression who developed severe orbital and ocular neurotoxicity (grade 3 according to CTCAE v4.03) after intravenous cisplatin. CONCLUSION: We discuss diagnostic approaches and differential diagnoses in this clinical situation. Before starting treatment with intravenous and topical steroids, it is crucial to rule out meningeal and cerebral spread as well as paraneoplastic and endocrine syndromes.
30737860	Meropenem	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Paediatric acute kidney injury induced by vancomycin monotherapy versus combined vancomycin and meropenem.	WHAT IS KNOWN AND OBJECTIVE: Increasing reports of the combined use of vancomycin (VAN) and piperacillin/tazobactam leading to higher nephrotoxicity have led to carbapenems being recommended as an alternative option to combine with VAN when nephrotoxicity is a major concern. However, whether carbapenems also increase the nephrotoxicity of VAN is unclear. This study aimed to determine whether meropenem is a suitable drug to combine with VAN based on whether meropenem enhances the nephrotoxicity of VAN. METHODS: This retrospective cohort study enrolled hospitalized children ranging in age from 1 month to 18 years at two tertiary hospitals from 1 February 2017 to 1 February 2018. Patients treated with either VAN or combined VAN and meropenem (VM) for more than 48 hours were eligible for inclusion. Those with underlying kidney diseases or abnormal age-adjusted baseline serum creatinine (SCr) at admission were excluded. Propensity score matching (PSM) was applied to the patients to balance factors associated with acute kidney injury (AKI). In addition, VAN trough concentrations were also compared. AKI was defined as an increase in SCr by >/=50% from baseline or by >/=0.3 mg/dL sustained over at least two consecutive measurements ranging from the time of initiation until 72 hours after the completion of VAN therapy. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The eligibility criteria were met by 183 of 243 identified patients: 101 patients received VAN alone and 82 received VM. PSM resulted in 154 hospitalized children being included (77 patients in each group). The incidence of AKI was 10.7% (8/77) in both of the compared groups, while the VAN trough concentration was significantly higher in the VM group (9.0 mg/L) than in the VAN group (6.6 mg/L, P = 0.007) after controlling for confounders. WHAT IS NEW AND CONCLUSION: Despite the elevated VAN trough concentration, meropenem did not increase the nephrotoxicity of VAN and might therefore be an acceptable antibiotic to combine with VAN when necessary.
30592963	Carnosine	Peripheral Nervous System Diseases	0	1	0	0		L-Carnosine protects against Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy in colorectal cancer patients: A perspective on targeting Nrf-2 and NF-kappaB pathways.	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy is a common side effect afflicting cancer patients treated with oxalipatin based chemotherapy. AIM: The study investigated the potential prophylactic effect of L-carnosine against acute oxaliplatin neurotoxicity in colorectal cancer patients with emphasis on the redox (Nrf-2, MDA), inflammatory (NF-kappaB, TNF-alpha), and apoptotic (caspase-3) parameters. METHODS: In this pilot study, 65 patients were recruited using a prospective randomized controlled study design and enrolled randomly into two arms; Arm A, 31 patients received FOLFOX-6 regimen (oxaliplatin, 5FU & leucovorin) and Arm B, 34 patients received FOLFOX-6 regimen and daily oral L-carnosine (500 mg) along the treatment period. Patients were followed up for three months, then both arms were analyzed for neuropathy incidence/grade and any additional toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTC version 4). RESULTS: The neuropathy grading evaluation of Arm B vs Arm A revealed that 17 patients (56.7%) vs 11 patients (35.5%) suffered grade 1, one patient (3.3%) vs 19 patients (61.3%) suffered grade 2, while 12 patients (40%) vs one patient (3.2%) were normal. In arm B, the addition of L-carnosine decreased significantly the levels/activity of NF-kappaB (27%) and TNF-alpha (36.6%); this anti-inflammatory effect entailed also its anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic effects, thus MDA level (51.8%) and caspase-3 activity (49%) were also reduced, whereas Nrf-2 was increased (38.7%) as compared to Arm A. In both arms a significant correlation was only evident between TNF-alpha and the neuropathy grading score (P < .03); the correlation analysis was significantly positive between NF-kappaB and both Nrf-2 and caspase 3. CONCLUSION: L-Carnosine exerted a neuroprotective effect against oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy in colorectal cancer patients by targeting Nrf-2 and NF-kappaB pathways.
29950327	Rituximab	Respiratory Tract Infections	0	0	0	0		Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis prevents severe/life-threatening infections following rituximab in antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis.	OBJECTIVE: We aimed to assess risk factors for the development of severe infection in patients with antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody-associated vasculitis (AAV) receiving rituximab. METHODS: 192 patients with AAV were identified. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify risk factors for severe infection following rituximab. Severe infections were classified as grade >/=3 as proposed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events V.4.0. RESULTS: 95 severe infections were recorded in 49 (25.52%) patients, corresponding to an event rate of 26.06 per 100 person-years. The prophylactic use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was associated with a lower frequency of severe infections (HR 0.30, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.69), while older age (HR 1.03, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.05), endobronchial involvement (HR 2.21, 95% CI 1.14 to 4.26), presence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (HR 6.30, 95% CI 1.08 to 36.75) and previous alemtuzumab use (HR 3.97, 95% CI 1.50 to 10.54) increased the risk. When analysis was restricted to respiratory tract infections (66.3% of all infections), endobronchial involvement (HR 4.27, 95% CI 1.81 to 10.06), severe bronchiectasis (HR 6.14, 95% CI 1.18 to 31.91), higher neutrophil count (HR 1.19, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.33) and major relapse (HR 3.07, 95% CI 1.30 to 7.23) as indication for rituximab use conferred a higher risk, while refractory disease (HR 0.25, 95% CI 0.07 to 0.90) as indication had a lower frequency of severe infections. CONCLUSIONS: We found severe infections in one quarter of patients with AAV receiving rituximab. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole prophylaxis reduced the risk, while especially bronchiectasis and endobronchial involvement are risk factors for severe respiratory infections.
29749071	Piperacillin, Tazobactam Drug Combination	Blister	1	0	0	0		A polymorphous rash of an uncommon blistering disease.	
29749071	Piperacillin, Tazobactam Drug Combination	Exanthema	1	0	0	0		A polymorphous rash of an uncommon blistering disease.	
29749071	Piperacillin, Tazobactam Drug Combination	Linear IgA Bullous Dermatosis	1	0	0	0		A polymorphous rash of an uncommon blistering disease.	
28863431	Ibuprofen	Out-of-Hospital Cardiac Arrest	1	0	0	0		NSAIDs and cardiac arrest: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use is associated with increased risk of Out-of-hospital Cardiac Arrest: A nationwide Case-Time-Control study.	
30228561	Fentanyl	Liver Failure	1	0	0	0		"Son's Death to Opioid Abuse Was ""Completely Unnecessary""."	
31060687	Erlotinib Hydrochloride	Myocardial Infarction	1	1	0	0	0.0	[Acute Myocardial Infarction and Purpuric Drug Eruption Caused by Erlotinib Combined with Cabozantinib:Report of One Case].	Multi-target anticancer drugs have a more comprehensive and extensive range of action,and there is an uncertain risk in the combination of two drugs.A case of acute toxicity induced by erlotinib combined with cabozantinib is reported in this article.
31033491	Methamphetamine	Pancreatitis	1	1	0	1	1.0	Acute Methamphetamine-Induced Hepatic and Pancreatic Ischemia.	Methamphetamine is a central nervous system stimulant that induces arousal, a positive mood, cardiac stimulation, and an acute improvement in cognitive domains. Its illicit exploitation is rapidly growing in North America. Typically, extended use of the drug induces organ damage via vasoconstriction and subsequent ischemia. This case specifically discusses hepatic and pancreatic pathology resulting from methamphetamine overdose alongside an unusual discovery of globally necrotic von Meyenburg complexes.
30988110	Ceftriaxone	Vasculitis, Leukocytoclastic, Cutaneous	1	0	0	0		Ceftriaxone-induced leucocytoclastic vasculitis.	
30810272	Bevacizumab	Retinal Artery Occlusion	1	0	0	0		Incidence of retinal artery occlusion following intravitreal antivascular endothelial growth factor injections.	
30810272	Ranibizumab	Retinal Artery Occlusion	1	0	0	0		Incidence of retinal artery occlusion following intravitreal antivascular endothelial growth factor injections.	
30190520	Calcium Pyrophosphate	Crystal Arthropathies	0	0	0	0		Calcium crystal deposition diseases - beyond gout.	The most common types of calcium-containing crystals that are associated with joint and periarticular disorders are calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPP) and basic calcium phosphate (BCP) crystals. Several diverse but difficult-to-treat acute and chronic arthropathies and other clinical syndromes are associated with the deposition of these crystals. Although the pathogenic mechanism of calcium crystal deposition is partially understood, much remains to be investigated, as no drug is available to prevent crystal deposition, permit crystal dissolution or specifically target the pathogenic effects that result in the clinical manifestations. In this Review, the main clinical manifestations of CPP and BCP crystal deposition are discussed, along with the biological effects of these crystals, current therapeutic approaches and future directions in therapy.
29498948	Sevoflurane	Respiration Disorders	0	0	0	0		Inhalational versus Intravenous Induction of Anesthesia in Children with a High Risk of Perioperative Respiratory Adverse Events: A Randomized Controlled Trial.	BACKGROUND: Limited evidence suggests that children have a lower incidence of perioperative respiratory adverse events when intravenous propofol is used compared with inhalational sevoflurane for the anesthesia induction. Limiting these events can improve recovery time as well as decreasing surgery waitlists and healthcare costs. This single center open-label randomized controlled trial assessed the impact of the anesthesia induction technique on the occurrence of perioperative respiratory adverse events in children at high risk of those events. METHODS: Children (N = 300; 0 to 8 yr) with at least two clinically relevant risk factors for perioperative respiratory adverse events and deemed suitable for either technique of anesthesia induction were recruited and randomized to either intravenous propofol or inhalational sevoflurane. The primary outcome was the difference in the rate of occurrence of perioperative respiratory adverse events between children receiving intravenous induction and those receiving inhalation induction of anesthesia. RESULTS: Children receiving intravenous propofol were significantly less likely to experience perioperative respiratory adverse events compared with those who received inhalational sevoflurane after adjusting for age, sex, American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status and weight (perioperative respiratory adverse event: 39/149 [26%] vs. 64/149 [43%], relative risk [RR]: 1.7, 95% CI: 1.2 to 2.3, P = 0.002, respiratory adverse events at induction: 16/149 [11%] vs. 47/149 [32%], RR: 3.06, 95% CI: 1.8 to 5. 2, P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Where clinically appropriate, anesthesiologists should consider using an intravenous propofol induction technique in children who are at high risk of experiencing perioperative respiratory adverse events. VISUAL ABSTRACT: An online visual overview is available for this article at http://links.lww.com/ALN/B725.
29173693	Adalimumab	Myositis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Three cases of anti-TNF induced myositis and literature review.	Anti-tumor necrosis factor drugs are frequently preferred in the treatment of rheumatologic diseases and other inflammatory diseases. The development of myositis after using anti-tumor necrosis factor drugs is a rare clinical condition. Here we aimed to report cases who developed myositis after using anti-tumor necrosis factor drugs and review the current literature. We report two cases of rheumatoid arthritis and a case of ankylosing spondylitis developed idiopathic inflammatory myopathy following anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy. In conclusion, myositis could develop during anti-tumor necrosis factor therapy, so these patients should be evaluated carefully initially for myositis and should be closely monitored due to the potential for developing myositis in treatment process.
31142711	Nivolumab	Myasthenia Gravis	1	1	0	0	0.0	[An autopsy case of nivolumab-induced myasthenia gravis and myositis].	An 84-year-old woman developed blepharoptosis, diplopia, weakness of extremities, and dysphagia with elevation of serum CK levels after treatment with nivolumab against renal cell carcinoma. 3 Hz repetitive stimulation showed waning in the trapezius muscle, leading to the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Laboratory examination showed that anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody was negative. We performed IVIg and steroid therapy. However, her symptoms did not improve, and she died of respiratory failure, although serum CK levels ameliorated to the normal range. The results of autopsy showed atrophy of muscle fibers and massive infiltration of inflammatory cells in the endomysium of the iliopsoas muscle and diaphragm, indicating occurrence of myositis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that CD8-positive T cells mainly infiltrates in the endomysium with a small number of CD4-potive T cells. Here, we report an autopsy case of nivolumab-induced myasthenia gravis and myositis.
31142711	Nivolumab	Respiratory Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	[An autopsy case of nivolumab-induced myasthenia gravis and myositis].	An 84-year-old woman developed blepharoptosis, diplopia, weakness of extremities, and dysphagia with elevation of serum CK levels after treatment with nivolumab against renal cell carcinoma. 3 Hz repetitive stimulation showed waning in the trapezius muscle, leading to the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. Laboratory examination showed that anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody was negative. We performed IVIg and steroid therapy. However, her symptoms did not improve, and she died of respiratory failure, although serum CK levels ameliorated to the normal range. The results of autopsy showed atrophy of muscle fibers and massive infiltration of inflammatory cells in the endomysium of the iliopsoas muscle and diaphragm, indicating occurrence of myositis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that CD8-positive T cells mainly infiltrates in the endomysium with a small number of CD4-potive T cells. Here, we report an autopsy case of nivolumab-induced myasthenia gravis and myositis.
30277163	Sodium Glutamate	Anemia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Anaemogenic, Obesogenic and Thermogenic Potentials of Graded Doses of Monosodium Glutamate Sub-acutely Fed to Experimental Wistar Rats.	BACKGROUND: Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) is one of the most commonly used food additives for the enhancement of food taste and flavour. There are several conflicting reports of toxicity or otherwise safety of the compound, which raises a growing concern regarding the safety of monosodium glutamate as a food additive. OBJECTIVE: In the present study, we sought to investigate the effect of monosodium glutamate on body weight, feed consumption, body temperature and some haematological parameters. METHODOLOGY: Twenty adult Wistar rats divided into four groups of five rats each were used for the study. Rats in groups 1, 2 and 3 were given feed thoroughly mixed with 3, 6 and 9 g of monosodium glutamate respectively for 14 days, while rats in group 4 (Control) were given only the feed for the same period of time. Body weight, temperature, feed consumption, and some haematological parameters were measured before the addition of the compound to the feed and thereafter for every 2 days for a period of 14 days. RESULTS: Our findings indicated significant changes (P < 0.05) in the red blood cells (RBC) count, packed cell volume (PCV), as well as body temperature in all the treated groups compared to the control group. The result also revealed a significant dose-dependent increase in body weight in the groups treated with 6 and 9 g of monosodium glutamate compared to the control, the body weight correlated positively with the duration of monosodium glutamate consumption. CONCLUSION: The current data suggest that consumption of high doses/quantity of monosodium glutamate for a long duration of time could lead to anaemia due to a decrease in red blood cell count and packed cell volume and obesity resulting from an increase in body weight gain.
30058563	Adalimumab	Cellulitis	1	0	0	0		Wells syndrome in a patient receiving adalimumab biosimilar: A case report and review of literature.	
29681563	Rivaroxaban	ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction	1	1	1	1	1.0	Prothrombin complex concentrate and fatal thrombotic adverse events: A complication to keep in mind.	Thromboembolic events such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are well-known complications that can occur after prothrombin complex concentrate therapy. However, acute myocardial infarction is a very rare but potentially life-threatening complication that was exclusively described in patients with bleeding disorders who received chronic and recurrent concentrate infusions. We report the case of a 70 year-old male patient with cholangiocarcinoma who was admitted to our hospital with worsening fatigue and weakness. His stay was complicated by uncontrolled bleeding secondary to rivaroxaban use and advanced liver disease. By the end of the prothrombin complex concentrate infusion used to reverse his coagulopathy, patient developed ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction with cardiogenic shock and passed away. This is the first reported case of acute myocardial infarction that occurs in a patient without hemophilia and after the first prothrombin complex concentrate infusion.
29266189	Clofarabine	Acute Kidney Injury	1	1	0	0	0.0	Toxicity associated with intensive postinduction therapy incorporating clofarabine in the very high-risk stratum of patients with newly diagnosed high-risk B-lymphoblastic leukemia: A report from the Children's Oncology Group study AALL1131.	BACKGROUND: Children, adolescents, and young adults with very high-risk (VHR) B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) have poor outcomes, and novel therapies are needed for this subgroup. The AALL1131 study evaluated postinduction therapy using cyclophosphamide (CPM), etoposide (ETOP), and clofarabine (CLOF) for patients with VHR B-ALL. METHODS: Patients who were 1 to 30 years old and had VHR B-ALL received modified Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster therapy after induction and were randomized to 1) CPM, cytarabine, mercaptopurine, vincristine (VCR), and pegaspargase (control arm), 2) CPM, ETOP, VCR, and pegaspargase (experimental arm 1), or 3) CPM, ETOP, CLOF (30 mg/m(2) /d x 5), VCR, and pegaspargase (experimental arm 2) during the second half of consolidation and delayed intensification. RESULTS: The rates of grade 4/5 infections and grade 3/4 pancreatitis were significantly increased in experimental arm 2. The dose of CLOF was, therefore, reduced to 20 mg/m(2) /d x 5, and myeloid growth factor was required after CLOF administration. Despite these changes, 4 of 39 patients (10.3%) developed grade 4 infections, with 1 of these patients developing a grade 5 acute kidney injury attributed to CLOF, whereas only 1 of 46 patients (2.2%) in experimental arm 1 developed grade 4 infections, and there were no grade 4/5 infections in the control arm (n = 20). Four patients in experimental arm 2 had prolonged cytopenias for >60 days, whereas none did in the control arm or experimental arm 1. Counts failed to recover for 2 of these patients, one having a grade 5 acute kidney injury and the other removed from protocol therapy; both events occurred 92 days after the start of consolidation part 2. CONCLUSIONS: In AALL1131, CLOF, administered with CPM and ETOP, was associated with unacceptable toxicity. Cancer 2018;124:1150-9. (c) 2017 American Cancer Society.
29266189	Clofarabine	Bacterial Infections	1	1	0	0	0.0	Toxicity associated with intensive postinduction therapy incorporating clofarabine in the very high-risk stratum of patients with newly diagnosed high-risk B-lymphoblastic leukemia: A report from the Children's Oncology Group study AALL1131.	BACKGROUND: Children, adolescents, and young adults with very high-risk (VHR) B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) have poor outcomes, and novel therapies are needed for this subgroup. The AALL1131 study evaluated postinduction therapy using cyclophosphamide (CPM), etoposide (ETOP), and clofarabine (CLOF) for patients with VHR B-ALL. METHODS: Patients who were 1 to 30 years old and had VHR B-ALL received modified Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster therapy after induction and were randomized to 1) CPM, cytarabine, mercaptopurine, vincristine (VCR), and pegaspargase (control arm), 2) CPM, ETOP, VCR, and pegaspargase (experimental arm 1), or 3) CPM, ETOP, CLOF (30 mg/m(2) /d x 5), VCR, and pegaspargase (experimental arm 2) during the second half of consolidation and delayed intensification. RESULTS: The rates of grade 4/5 infections and grade 3/4 pancreatitis were significantly increased in experimental arm 2. The dose of CLOF was, therefore, reduced to 20 mg/m(2) /d x 5, and myeloid growth factor was required after CLOF administration. Despite these changes, 4 of 39 patients (10.3%) developed grade 4 infections, with 1 of these patients developing a grade 5 acute kidney injury attributed to CLOF, whereas only 1 of 46 patients (2.2%) in experimental arm 1 developed grade 4 infections, and there were no grade 4/5 infections in the control arm (n = 20). Four patients in experimental arm 2 had prolonged cytopenias for >60 days, whereas none did in the control arm or experimental arm 1. Counts failed to recover for 2 of these patients, one having a grade 5 acute kidney injury and the other removed from protocol therapy; both events occurred 92 days after the start of consolidation part 2. CONCLUSIONS: In AALL1131, CLOF, administered with CPM and ETOP, was associated with unacceptable toxicity. Cancer 2018;124:1150-9. (c) 2017 American Cancer Society.
30914538	Oxaliplatin	Pain	1	1	1	1	1.0	[A Postoperative Case of Rectal Cancer with Anal Pain Caused by Side Effects of Oxaliplatin].	This case involved a 28-year-old female with rectal cancer in the inner pelvis. Two courses of SOX plus Cmab therapy, and 4 courses of FOLFOX-Cmab therapy were administered as preoperative chemotherapies, which resulted in a reduction in the major lesion. Subsequently, laparoscopic low anterior resection and dissection of the bilateral lymph nodes were performed. After the surgery, adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX was administered. Afterwards, the patient developed severe anal pain and visited us for treatment. The severe anal pain continued even after FOLFOX treatment and increased with defecation. A side effect of oxaliplatin was suspected, and sLV5FU chemotherapy was administered. As a result, the anal pain disappeared. Thus, the pain was considered to be induced by oxaliplatin. While peripheral neuropathy is a widely known side effect of oxaliplatin, this case was considered to be unique because anal pain occurs very rarely with oxaliplatin treatment.
30674774	Thalidomide	Malnutrition	1	1	0	1	1.0	Apremilast induced chronic diarrhea and malnutrition.	Apremilast is used as a systemic therapy for the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. This drug is considered relatively safe with a very low incidence of serious side effects. Common side effects are diarrhea, nausea, headache, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infections which are mild to moderate in severity. Diarrhea tends to occur within 2 weeks of starting treatment and resolve spontaneously within 4 weeks without dose adjustment or discontinuation of therapy. Chronic diarrhea and malnutrition due to apremilast have not been reported yet. We report a case of apremilast induced chronic diarrhea leading to malnutrition, necessitating discontinuation of therapy.
30507006	Zolpidem	Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		Nail pitting and splinter hemorrhage possibly induced by zolpidem.	
30407736	Bleomycin	Hemangiosarcoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30407736	Bleomycin	Teratoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30407736	Cisplatin	Hemangiosarcoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30407736	Cisplatin	Teratoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30407736	Etoposide	Hemangiosarcoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30407736	Etoposide	Teratoma	1	1	0	0	1.0	Development of angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy.	Herein, we report a case of an angiosarcoma in a mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor that exhibited growing teratoma syndrome during chemotherapy. A 26-year-old man presented with a giant anterior mediastinal mass, which was diagnosed as a non-seminomatous germ cell tumor. The patient was administered three cycles of chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, and cisplatin), but the mass grew despite normalization of tumor markers. Massive bleeding during thoracic surgery resulted in incomplete resection, and the mass was clinically and pathologically diagnosed as growing teratoma syndrome (only mature teratoma). The residual mass continued to grow, and complete resection was subsequently achieved after a detailed analysis of its vascular anatomy using angiography. The final pathological findings revealed angiosarcoma, which indicated a rare somatic type of mediastinal non-seminomatous germ cell tumor.
30353917	Adalimumab	Thrombocytopenia	1	0	0	0		Thrombocytopenia in a psoriatic patient sequentially treated with adalimumab, secukinumab and ustekinumab.	
30353917	Ustekinumab	Thrombocytopenia	1	0	0	0		Thrombocytopenia in a psoriatic patient sequentially treated with adalimumab, secukinumab and ustekinumab.	
29569759	Amoxicillin-Potassium Clavulanate Combination	Lung Diseases, Interstitial	1	0	0	0		A breathtaking DRESS due to amoxicillin-clavulanate presenting as polymorphic eruption of the pregnancy.	
29569759	Amoxicillin-Potassium Clavulanate Combination	Myocarditis	1	0	0	0		A breathtaking DRESS due to amoxicillin-clavulanate presenting as polymorphic eruption of the pregnancy.	
29022756	Nitric Oxide	Hyperalgesia	0	1	0	0		Soluble guanylyl cyclase is a critical regulator of migraine-associated pain.	Background Nitric oxide (NO) has been heavily implicated in migraine. Nitroglycerin is a prototypic NO-donor, and triggers migraine in humans. However, nitroglycerin also induces oxidative/nitrosative stress and is a source of peroxynitrite - factors previously linked with migraine etiology. Soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) is the high affinity NO receptor in the body, and the aim of this study was to identify the precise role of sGC in acute and chronic migraine. Methods We developed a novel brain-bioavailable sGC stimulator (VL-102), and tested its hyperalgesic properties in mice. We also determined the effect of VL-102 on c-fos and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) immunoreactivity within the trigeminovascular complex. In addition, we also tested the known sGC inhibitor, ODQ, within the chronic nitroglycerin migraine model. Results VL-102-evoked acute and chronic mechanical cephalic and hind-paw allodynia in a dose-dependent manner, which was blocked by the migraine medications sumatriptan, propranolol, and topiramate. In addition, VL-102 also increased c-fos and CGRP expressing cells within the trigeminovascular complex. Importantly, ODQ completely inhibited acute and chronic hyperalgesia induced by nitroglycerin. ODQ also blocked hyperalgesia already established by chronic nitroglycerin, implicating this pathway in migraine chronicity. Conclusions These results indicate that nitroglycerin causes migraine-related pain through stimulation of the sGC pathway, and that super-activation of this receptor may be an important component for the maintenance of chronic migraine. This work opens the possibility for negative sGC modulators as novel migraine therapies.
31081301	Ticagrelor	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Under-prescription of novel antiplatelet drugs in patients with acute coronary syndrome and previous cardiovascular disease.	"BACKGROUND: Patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and previous cardiovascular disease (CVD) (stroke, peripheral arterial disease [PAD] or coronary artery disease [CAD]) are at high risk of serious events and mortality. Current clinical guidelines recommend new antiplatelet drugs (NADs) for high cardiovascular risk patients with ACS; however, these drugs are underused in different scenarios. METHODS: This study included 1717 ACS patients from 3 tertiary hospitals. Of them, 641 (37.33%) suffered from previous CVD: 149 patients with stroke, 154 patients with PAD and 541 patients with CAD. Bleeding, mortality and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) at 1 year of follow-up after hospital discharge were analyzed. RESULTS: NADs administration during hospital stay and at discharge was less frequent in patients with previous CVDs (P<0.001, for both). Cox analysis in this cohort of patients showed that clopidogrel prescription at discharge was independently associated with MACEs (HR: 1.59 [95% CI: 1.03-2.45]; P=0.036) and with death (HR: 1.99 [95% CI: 1.00-3.98]; P=0.049) in multivariate analysis. More specifically, when ticagrelor prescription at discharge was compared with clopidogrel, a significant death reduction was found in both, the univariate and the multivariate Cox analysis (HR: 4.54 [95% CI: 2.26-9.13]; P<0.001 and HR: 2.61 [95% CI: 1.16-5.90]; P=0.021, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: New antiplatelet drugs, especially ticagrelor, showed lower rates of mortality in patients with CVD without differences for bleeding. Despite the recommendations of current clinical guidelines for high risk patients with ACS, the use of NADs is very low in ""real-life"" patients with previous CVD."
31054846	Rivaroxaban	Peptic Ulcer	0	0	0	0		Pantoprazole to Prevent Gastroduodenal Events in Patients Receiving Rivaroxaban and/or Aspirin in a Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial.	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Antiplatelets and anticoagulants are associated with increased upper gastrointestinal bleeding. We evaluated whether proton pump inhibitor therapy could reduce this risk. METHODS: We performed a 3 x 2 partial factorial double-blind trial of 17,598 participants with stable cardiovascular disease and peripheral artery disease. Participants were randomly assigned to groups given pantoprazole 40 mg daily or placebo, as well as rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily with aspirin 100 mg once daily, rivaroxaban 5 mg twice daily, or aspirin 100 mg alone. The primary outcome was time to first upper gastrointestinal event, defined as a composite of overt bleeding, upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a gastroduodenal lesion or of unknown origin, occult bleeding, symptomatic gastroduodenal ulcer or >/=5 erosions, upper gastrointestinal obstruction, or perforation. RESULTS: There was no significant difference in upper gastrointestinal events between the pantoprazole group (102 of 8791 events) and the placebo group (116 of 8807 events) (hazard ratio, 0.88; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.67-1.15). Pantoprazole significantly reduced bleeding of gastroduodenal lesions (hazard ratio, 0.52; 95% confidence interval, 0.28-0.94; P = .03); this reduction was greater when we used a post-hoc definition of bleeding gastroduodenal lesion (hazard ratio, 0.45; 95% confidence interval, 0.27-0.74), although the number needed to treat still was high (n = 982; 95% confidence interval, 609-2528). CONCLUSIONS: In a randomized placebo-controlled trial, we found that routine use of proton pump inhibitors in patients receiving low-dose anticoagulation and/or aspirin for stable cardiovascular disease does not reduce upper gastrointestinal events, but may reduce bleeding from gastroduodenal lesions. ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01776424.
31023409	Modafinil	Anxiety	1	0	0	0		Modafinil as a Stimulant for Military Aviators.	INTRODUCTION: Modafinil is a wakefulness-promoting stimulant that has been approved by the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) as a fatigue countermeasure medication since 2011. Each RSAF aircrew member must undergo a ground test to exclude operationally relevant adverse drug effects prior to consuming the medication for operational reasons. This study describes the RSAF's modafinil ground testing outcomes over a 7-yr period.METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 243 RSAF aircrew members who underwent modafinil 100-mg test dosing over the 7-yr period from September 2011 to September 2018.RESULTS: The median age was 31 yr (range, 21-53 yr) and mean age was 31.7 yr +/- 6.19 yr. Of the aircrew members, 234 (96.3%) were men and all were of Asian ethnicity. Of the subjects, 237 (97.5%) were medically cleared for the operational use of modafinil. Among the six (2.47%) who failed modafinil ground testing, headache (cumulative incidence, 1.65%), anxiety (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), diarrhea (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), and insomnia (cumulative incidence, 0.41%) were reported as the side effects experienced. None of the aircrew members experienced major adverse drug events.DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest a low occurrence of adverse drug effects among military aircrew members who undergo modafinil test dosing prior to using the drug operationally. To our knowledge, this is the single largest published case series of modafinil ground testing outcomes among Asian military aviators.Ooi T, Wong SH, See B. Modafinil as a stimulant for military aviators. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2019; 90(5):480-483.
31023409	Modafinil	Diarrhea	1	0	0	0		Modafinil as a Stimulant for Military Aviators.	INTRODUCTION: Modafinil is a wakefulness-promoting stimulant that has been approved by the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) as a fatigue countermeasure medication since 2011. Each RSAF aircrew member must undergo a ground test to exclude operationally relevant adverse drug effects prior to consuming the medication for operational reasons. This study describes the RSAF's modafinil ground testing outcomes over a 7-yr period.METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 243 RSAF aircrew members who underwent modafinil 100-mg test dosing over the 7-yr period from September 2011 to September 2018.RESULTS: The median age was 31 yr (range, 21-53 yr) and mean age was 31.7 yr +/- 6.19 yr. Of the aircrew members, 234 (96.3%) were men and all were of Asian ethnicity. Of the subjects, 237 (97.5%) were medically cleared for the operational use of modafinil. Among the six (2.47%) who failed modafinil ground testing, headache (cumulative incidence, 1.65%), anxiety (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), diarrhea (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), and insomnia (cumulative incidence, 0.41%) were reported as the side effects experienced. None of the aircrew members experienced major adverse drug events.DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest a low occurrence of adverse drug effects among military aircrew members who undergo modafinil test dosing prior to using the drug operationally. To our knowledge, this is the single largest published case series of modafinil ground testing outcomes among Asian military aviators.Ooi T, Wong SH, See B. Modafinil as a stimulant for military aviators. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2019; 90(5):480-483.
31023409	Modafinil	Headache	1	0	0	0		Modafinil as a Stimulant for Military Aviators.	INTRODUCTION: Modafinil is a wakefulness-promoting stimulant that has been approved by the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) as a fatigue countermeasure medication since 2011. Each RSAF aircrew member must undergo a ground test to exclude operationally relevant adverse drug effects prior to consuming the medication for operational reasons. This study describes the RSAF's modafinil ground testing outcomes over a 7-yr period.METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 243 RSAF aircrew members who underwent modafinil 100-mg test dosing over the 7-yr period from September 2011 to September 2018.RESULTS: The median age was 31 yr (range, 21-53 yr) and mean age was 31.7 yr +/- 6.19 yr. Of the aircrew members, 234 (96.3%) were men and all were of Asian ethnicity. Of the subjects, 237 (97.5%) were medically cleared for the operational use of modafinil. Among the six (2.47%) who failed modafinil ground testing, headache (cumulative incidence, 1.65%), anxiety (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), diarrhea (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), and insomnia (cumulative incidence, 0.41%) were reported as the side effects experienced. None of the aircrew members experienced major adverse drug events.DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest a low occurrence of adverse drug effects among military aircrew members who undergo modafinil test dosing prior to using the drug operationally. To our knowledge, this is the single largest published case series of modafinil ground testing outcomes among Asian military aviators.Ooi T, Wong SH, See B. Modafinil as a stimulant for military aviators. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2019; 90(5):480-483.
31023409	Modafinil	Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders	1	0	0	0		Modafinil as a Stimulant for Military Aviators.	INTRODUCTION: Modafinil is a wakefulness-promoting stimulant that has been approved by the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) as a fatigue countermeasure medication since 2011. Each RSAF aircrew member must undergo a ground test to exclude operationally relevant adverse drug effects prior to consuming the medication for operational reasons. This study describes the RSAF's modafinil ground testing outcomes over a 7-yr period.METHODS: This is a retrospective case series of 243 RSAF aircrew members who underwent modafinil 100-mg test dosing over the 7-yr period from September 2011 to September 2018.RESULTS: The median age was 31 yr (range, 21-53 yr) and mean age was 31.7 yr +/- 6.19 yr. Of the aircrew members, 234 (96.3%) were men and all were of Asian ethnicity. Of the subjects, 237 (97.5%) were medically cleared for the operational use of modafinil. Among the six (2.47%) who failed modafinil ground testing, headache (cumulative incidence, 1.65%), anxiety (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), diarrhea (cumulative incidence, 0.41%), and insomnia (cumulative incidence, 0.41%) were reported as the side effects experienced. None of the aircrew members experienced major adverse drug events.DISCUSSION: Our findings suggest a low occurrence of adverse drug effects among military aircrew members who undergo modafinil test dosing prior to using the drug operationally. To our knowledge, this is the single largest published case series of modafinil ground testing outcomes among Asian military aviators.Ooi T, Wong SH, See B. Modafinil as a stimulant for military aviators. Aerosp Med Hum Perform. 2019; 90(5):480-483.
30968152	Irinotecan	Diarrhea	0	1	0	0		Protective effect of curcumin against irinotecan‑induced intestinal mucosal injury via attenuation of NF‑kappaB activation, oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress.	Irinotecan (CPT‑11) is a DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor which is widely used in clinical chemotherapy, particularly for colorectal cancer treatment. However, late‑onset diarrhea is one of the severe side‑effects of this drug and this restricts its clinical application. The present study aimed to investigate the protective effects of curcumin treatment on CPT‑11‑induced intestinal mucosal injury both in vitro and in vivo and to elucidate the related mechanisms involved in these effects. For this purpose, mice were intraperitoneally injected with CPT‑11 (75 mg/kg) for 4 days to establish a model of late‑onset diarrhea. Curcumin (100 mg/kg) was intragastrically administered 8 days before the injection of CPT‑11. Injury to small intestinal tissues was examined by H&E staining. The protein expression of prolyl 4‑hydroxylase subunit beta (P4HB) and peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4) was detected by immunohistochemistry, as well as western blot analysis. IEC‑6 cell viability was detected by MTT assay. Flow cytometry was performed to examine the cell apoptotic rate, mitochondrial membrane potential and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Immunofluorescence was used to observe the localization of nuclear factor (NF)‑kappaB. The levels of cleaved caspase‑3, glucose‑regulated protein, 78 kDa (GRP78), P4HB, PRDX4 and CHOP were detected by western blot analysis. The results revealed that in vivo, curcumin effectively attenuated the symptoms of diarrhea and abnormal intestinal mucosa structure induced by CPT‑11 in nude mice. Treatment with curcumin also increased the expression of P4HB and PRDX4 in the tissue of the small intestine. In vitro, curcumin, exhibited little cytotoxicity when used at concentrations <2.5 microg/ml for 24 h in IEC‑6 cells. At this concentration, curcumin also improved cell morphology, inhibited apoptosis, maintained mitochondrial membrane potential and reduced the elevated levels of ROS induced by CPT‑11 (20 microg/ml). Furthermore, curcumin abolished NF‑kappaB signal transduction and protected the cells from CPT‑11‑induced apoptosis by upregulating the expression of molecular chaperones, such as GRP78, P4HB and PRDX4, and suppressing the levels of the apoptosis‑related proteins, CHOP and cleaved caspase‑3. On the whole, our data indicate that curcumin exerted protective effects against CPT‑11‑induced intestinal mucosa injury. The protective effects of curcumin are mediated by inhibiting the activation of NF‑kappaB, and suppressing oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress.
30958304	Scopolamine	Neurodegenerative Diseases	0	0	0	0		ENALAPRIL EFFECT ON THE STATE OF NITROGEN OXIDE SYSTEM AND PROOXIDANT-ANTIOXIDANT BALANCE IN BRAIN UNDER CONDITIONS OF BLOCKADE OF CENTRAL CHOLINERGIC SYSTEM.	One of the most important medical-social issues today is the search for new pathogenic directions in pharmacological prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases of the central nervous system. Objective: to investigate enalapril effect on the indices of the nitrogen oxide system and prooxidant-antioxidant balance in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus under conditions of experimental cerebral neurodegeneration. The state of the nitrogen oxide system and prooxidant-antioxidant balance is investigated in the experiment on male rats with scopolamine-induced neurodegeneration (1 mg/kg, 27 days) after enalapril administration in the dose of 1 mg/kg (14 days). Analysis of the obtained data enabled to describe a possible mechanism of enalapril neuroprotective action. It is manifested in decrease of NO2 concentration (1,4 times in both examined structures) and NOS activity (1,6 times in the hippocampus), which is indicative of an increased synthesis of NO as endothelial vasodilator. Correspondingly, a modulating effect on NO system and prooxidant-antioxidant balance (the content of products reacting with 2-thiobarbituric acid 1,1 times decreased in the cerebral cortex, and 1,3 times in the hippocampus compared with untreated rats; catalase activity in the cerebral cortex did not differ reliably from that of the index in the control group, and 1,4 times increased compared with untreated rats) can be considered as constituent mechanisms of enalapril neuroprotective effect under conditions of experimental scopolamine-induced neurodegeneration.
30938130	Ethanol	Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency	1	0	0	0		Alcohol-related chronic exocrine pancreatic insufficiency: diagnosis and therapeutic management. A proposal for treatment by the Italian Association for the Study of the Pancreas (AISP) and the Italian Society of Alcohology (SIA).	Current estimates of the prevalence of chronic pancreatitis, one of the most common causes of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, are in the range of 3-10 per 100,000 people in many parts of the world. Alcohol consumption is a very important risk factor for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and is involved in nearly half of all cases. The main hypothesis regarding the role of chronic alcohol consumption in pancreatitis is that there must be additional environmental or genetic risk factors involved for ongoing damage to occur. Treatment of patients with alcohol-related exocrine pancreatic insufficiency is complex, as the patient has two concomitant pathologies, alcohol-use disorder (AUD) and exocrine pancreatic insufficiency/chronic pancreatitis. Alcohol abstinence is the starting point for treatment, although even this along with the most advanced therapies allow only a slowdown in progression rather than restoration of function. This position paper of the Italian Association for the Study of the Pancreas and the Italian Society of Alcohology provides an overview of the pathogenesis of alcohol-related pancreatitis and discuss diagnostic issues. Treatment options for both exocrine pancreatic insufficiency/chronic pancreatitis (with a focus on pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy) and AUD (acamprosate, disulfiram, oral naltrexone, long-acting injectable naltrexone, sodium oxybate, nalmefene, baclofen, and psychosocial interventions) are also reviewed.
30932948	Methylphenidate	Epistaxis	1	0	0	0		Immediate-Release Methylphenidate-Associated Recurrent Nasal Bleeding in Siblings.	
30908353	Duloxetine Hydrochloride	Urinary Retention	1	0	1	1	1.0	Acute Urinary Retention and Acute Kidney Injury After Duloxetine Treatment: A Rare Case Report.	
29915123	Ticagrelor	Myocardial Infarction	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and Safety of Ticagrelor in Relation to Aspirin Use Within the Week Before Randomization in the SOCRATES Trial.	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: SOCRATES (Acute Stroke or Transient Ischemic Attack Treated With Aspirin or Ticagrelor and Patient Outcomes), comparing ticagrelor with aspirin in patients with acute cerebral ischemia, found a nonsignificant 11% relative risk reduction for stroke, myocardial infarction, or death (P=0.07). Aspirin intake before randomization could enhance the effect of ticagrelor by conferring dual antiplatelet effect during a high-risk period for subsequent stroke. Therefore, we explored the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor versus aspirin in the patients who received any aspirin the week before randomization. METHODS: A prespecified subgroup analysis in SOCRATES (n=13 199), randomizing patients with acute ischemic stroke (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of </=5) or transient ischemic attack (ABCD(2) score of >/=4) to 90-day treatment with ticagrelor or aspirin. Patients in the prior-aspirin group had received any aspirin within the week before randomization. Primary end point was time to stroke, myocardial infarction, or death. Safety end point was PLATO (Study of Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) major bleeding. RESULTS: The 4232 patients in the prior-aspirin group were older, had more vascular risk factors, and vascular disease than the other patients. In the prior-aspirin group, the primary end point occurred in 138/2130 (6.5%) of patients on ticagrelor and in 177/2102 (8.3%) on aspirin (hazard ratio, 0.76; 95% confidence interval, 0.61-0.95; P=0.02); in patients with no prior-aspirin usage an event occurred in 304/4459 (6.9%) and 320/4508 (7.1%) on ticagrelor and aspirin, respectively (hazard ratio, 0.96; 95% confidence interval, 0.82-1.12; P=0.59). The treatment-by-prior-aspirin interaction was not statistically significant (P=0.10). In the prior-aspirin group, major bleeding occurred in 0.7% and 0.4% of patients on ticagrelor and aspirin, respectively (hazard ratio, 1.58; 95% confidence interval, 0.68-3.65; P=0.28). CONCLUSIONS: In this secondary analysis from SOCRATES, fewer primary end points occurred on ticagrelor treatment than on aspirin in patients receiving aspirin before randomization, but there was no significant treatment-by-prior-aspirin interaction. A new study will investigate the benefit-risk of combining ticagrelor and aspirin in patients with acute cerebral ischemia (URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT03354429). CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01994720.
29895599	Eptifibatide	Hemorrhage	0	0	0	0		Activated Clotting Time to Guide Heparin Dosing in Non-ST-Segment-Elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients Undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention and Treated With IIb/IIIa Inhibitors: Impact on Ischemic and Bleeding Outcomes: Insights From the TAO Trial.	BACKGROUND: Monitoring anticoagulation with activated clotting time (ACT) has been proposed to reduce ischemic or bleeding events. However, the value of using ACT to improve outcomes is uncertain. This study sought to determine the relationship between ACT and outcomes during percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with non-ST-segment-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) treated by unfractionated heparin with GPIs (glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors). METHODS AND RESULTS: From the randomized TAO trial (Treatment of Acute Coronary Syndromes With Otamixaban), we analyzed the value of ACT to predict ischemic and bleeding outcomes in the 3275 patients receiving unfractionated heparin plus eptifibatide. Ischemic and safety outcomes were analyzed according to ACT to determine the best threshold. Median peak ACT was 225 s. There was no correlation (r=-0.02; P=0.24) between the unfractionated heparin dose received and the ACT value before percutaneous coronary intervention. There was no evidence of a nonlinear association between ACT and either ischemic or bleeding events (P=0.66; P=0.07). No threshold was found to predict ischemic complications. Conversely, increased bleeding was observed with ACT >230 s with an optimal threshold of ACTs >/=250 s (4.53% versus 6.17%; odds ratio, 1.46; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-2.06; P=0.028). This optimal threshold varied according to access site: >/=250 s (6.86% versus 10.18%; odds ratio, 1.57; 95% confidence interval, 1.00-2.45; P=0.047) by femoral approach and >/=290 s (2.86% versus 5.43%; odds ratio, 2.24; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-4.44; P=0.027) by radial approach. CONCLUSIONS: In the TAO trial, peak procedural ACT >/=250 s was associated with increased bleeding risk in non-ST-segment-elevation acute coronary syndrome patients treated with unfractionated heparin plus GPIs. This threshold was increased to 290 s when performing radial approach. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01076764.
29863777	Ribavirin	Scleroderma, Localized	1	0	0	0		Localized scleroderma occurring after treatment of chronic hepatitis C with sofosbuvir and ribavirin.	
29748219	Prasugrel Hydrochloride	Dyspnea	0	0	0	0		Frequency, Reasons, and Impact of Premature Ticagrelor Discontinuation in Patients Undergoing Coronary Revascularization in Routine Clinical Practice: Results From the Bern Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Registry.	BACKGROUND: Although ticagrelor has improved clinical outcomes among patients with acute coronary syndrome compared with clopidogrel, adherence to this new antiplatelet agent in real-world practice has not been fully investigated. METHODS AND RESULTS: Between November 2011 and June 2014, 1278 of 4831 consecutive patients (26.5%) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention at a tertiary care center were treated with ticagrelor. Premature ticagrelor cessation was categorized into (1) change, when ticagrelor was replaced by prasugrel; (2) de-escalation, when ticagrelor was replaced by clopidogrel; and (3) premature discontinuation, when ticagrelor was discontinued without P2Y12 inhibitor replacement. Of 1278 patients treated with ticagrelor, premature treatment cessation occurred in 212 patients (17%). De-escalation to clopidogrel was the most frequent scenario (57%; n=120), followed by premature discontinuation (28%; n=60) and change to prasugrel (15%; n=32). Reasons for ticagrelor cessation included adverse effects (49%), initiation of oral anticoagulation (19%), and unspecified general practitioner preference (10%). Most frequent adverse effects leading to premature ticagrelor cessation were bleeding (41%), dyspnea (29%), and gastrointestinal symptoms (18%). Premature ticagrelor cessation was not associated with an increased risk of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, or stroke (hazard ratio, 0.73; 95% confidence interval: 0.40-1.32; P=0.29). CONCLUSIONS: Premature ticagrelor cessation in routine clinical practice occurred in 1 of 6 patients and was primarily related to adverse effects among which bleeding and dyspnea were the most frequent. Although premature ticagrelor cessation was not associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes, this finding requires careful interpretation in view of the modest sample size. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT02241291.
29239023	Progesterone	Granuloma	1	0	0	0		Sclerosing lipogranuloma presenting as movable masses induced by large doses of progesterone injection.	
29150359	Azathioprine	Sialadenitis	1	0	0	0		Azathioprine-induce acute submandibular sialadenitis in a patient with Crohn's disease.	
29150359	Mercaptopurine	Sialadenitis	1	0	0	0		Azathioprine-induce acute submandibular sialadenitis in a patient with Crohn's disease.	
28983965	Gold Sodium Thiosulfate	Erythema	1	0	0	0		Unusual post-patch testing erythema: a late, granulomatous, non-eczematous reaction to gold sodium thiosulphate.	
28983965	Gold Sodium Thiosulfate	Granuloma	1	0	0	0		Unusual post-patch testing erythema: a late, granulomatous, non-eczematous reaction to gold sodium thiosulphate.	
28833586	Ethinyl Estradiol	Melanoma	1	0	0	0		Melanoma and chronic exposure to contraceptives containing microdoses of ethinylestradiol in young women: a retrospective study from the Research on Adverse Drug Events and Reports (RADAR) project comprising a large Midwestern U.S. patient population.	
28776778	Nivolumab	Skin Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Eruptive keratoacanthomas arising in the setting of lichenoid toxicity after programmed cell death 1 inhibition with nivolumab.	
31009289	Pilocarpine	Xerostomia	0	0	0	0		Efficacy and Safety of Tolterodine and Pilocarpine in Patients with Overactive Bladder.	PURPOSE: We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a combination of 2 mg tolterodine and 9 mg pilocarpine, vs tolterodine monotherapy in patients with overactive bladder. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We enrolled patients with overactive bladder symptoms in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel, active control study. Patients were randomized to the combination or 2 mg tolterodine twice daily for 12 weeks. After the double-blind period finished all patients were started on the combination for 12 weeks. Study co-primary end points were the change from baseline in the mean number of daily micturitions and cumulative incidence of dry mouth at the end of 12 weeks. Secondary end points were other overactive bladder symptoms, the total xerostomia inventory score and results of a visual analogue scale for dry mouth at the end of 12 and 24 weeks. RESULTS: The mean change in the number of daily micturitions from baseline to 12 weeks was -1.49 and -1.74 in the combination and tolterodine monotherapy groups, respectively. The mean difference was -0.26 (95% CI -0.79-0.27), confirming noninferiority. At 12 weeks the incidence of dry mouth was lower in the combination group than in the tolterodine monotherapy group (30.0% vs 42.9%, p = 0.009). All secondary and other efficacy outcomes related to overactive bladder symptoms improved in each group with no significant differences between the groups at 12 weeks. Changes from baseline in the total xerostomia inventory score and the visual analogue scale for dry mouth were significantly lower in the combination group than in the tolterodine monotherapy group. CONCLUSIONS: Tolterodine and pilocarpine alleviated dry mouth in patients with overactive bladder while maintaining anticholinergic efficacy similar to that of tolterodine.
30909052	Carbon Monoxide	Epilepsy	0	0	0	0		Association between ambient air pollution and hospital admission for epilepsy in Eastern China.	BACKGROUND: We aimed to study the short-term association between air pollutants and hospitalization for epilepsy in 47 hospitals from 10 cities in eastern China. METHOD: We identified hospital epilepsy admissions in 2014 and 2015. A conditional Poisson regression model was used to examine the association between air pollutants and hospital admission, with temperature and relative humidity adjusted using the natural spline (ns) function. Pollutants included sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), carbon monoxide (CO), and particulate matter (PM). The association was stratified by sex, age, and geographic region in single-pollutant and two-pollutant models. RESULTS: An interquartile (IQR) increase of NO(2) and CO on the concurrent day is correlated with an increased admission of 2.0% (0.5%, 3.6%) and 1.1% (0.1%, 2.1%), respectively. The association is stronger in children (</=18 years) and in northern China, but did not vary with sex. A positive association was also observed on the previous day for CO [1.5%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.3%, 2.6%], NO(2) (2.5%, 95% CI: 0.6%, 4.3%), and PM(2.5) (1.32%, 95% CI: 0.16%, 2.48%). Moving average concentration of 7 days for all pollutants was associated with decreased admission (CO: -1.29%, NO(2): -0.4.69%, SO(2):-2.12%, PM(2.5):-0.98%, PM(10):-1.70%). CONCLUSION: Exposures to NO(2) and CO on concurrent days, and PM(2.5) on the previous day, are associated with increased epilepsy hospitalization, whereas cumulative exposure appeared protective.
30909052	Sulfur Dioxide	Epilepsy	0	0	0	0		Association between ambient air pollution and hospital admission for epilepsy in Eastern China.	BACKGROUND: We aimed to study the short-term association between air pollutants and hospitalization for epilepsy in 47 hospitals from 10 cities in eastern China. METHOD: We identified hospital epilepsy admissions in 2014 and 2015. A conditional Poisson regression model was used to examine the association between air pollutants and hospital admission, with temperature and relative humidity adjusted using the natural spline (ns) function. Pollutants included sulfur dioxide (SO(2)), nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), carbon monoxide (CO), and particulate matter (PM). The association was stratified by sex, age, and geographic region in single-pollutant and two-pollutant models. RESULTS: An interquartile (IQR) increase of NO(2) and CO on the concurrent day is correlated with an increased admission of 2.0% (0.5%, 3.6%) and 1.1% (0.1%, 2.1%), respectively. The association is stronger in children (</=18 years) and in northern China, but did not vary with sex. A positive association was also observed on the previous day for CO [1.5%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.3%, 2.6%], NO(2) (2.5%, 95% CI: 0.6%, 4.3%), and PM(2.5) (1.32%, 95% CI: 0.16%, 2.48%). Moving average concentration of 7 days for all pollutants was associated with decreased admission (CO: -1.29%, NO(2): -0.4.69%, SO(2):-2.12%, PM(2.5):-0.98%, PM(10):-1.70%). CONCLUSION: Exposures to NO(2) and CO on concurrent days, and PM(2.5) on the previous day, are associated with increased epilepsy hospitalization, whereas cumulative exposure appeared protective.
30348854	Etanercept	Meningitis	1	0	0	0		Pearls & Oy-sters: Rheumatoid meningitis occurring during treatment with etanercept.	
30045957	Human Growth Hormone	Disease Susceptibility	1	1	0	0	0.0	Susceptibility to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease after human growth hormone treatment in France.	OBJECTIVE: To identify, among the available data concerning host characteristics and exposure, risk factors influencing the susceptibility for developing iatrogenic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (iCJD) in a cohort of patients treated with human cadaver-sourced growth hormone (hGH) in France. METHODS: This study included all 1,443 individuals treated in France with hGH from January 1982 to December 1985, out of which 119 cases of hGH-iCJD have been identified so far. We applied a 3 sequential step Cox analysis involving univariable, stepwise, and nonstepwise multivariable procedures. The variables studied were sex, age at hGH treatment initiation, and treatment characteristics (batches and doses). RESULTS: While no effect of age at treatment initiation was observed, a significant effect of sex on disease susceptibility was unexpectedly evidenced with a 2-fold increase of disease occurrence in male patients. This effect did not depend on differences of exposure between male and female patients. We identified 4 categories of hormone batches from high risk to no association with susceptibility. A relationship between the dose received from at-risk hormone batches and the attack rate (number of patients developing the disease among exposed individuals) was demonstrated. CONCLUSIONS: Studying the hGH-exposed patients in France provides epidemiologic evidence of a relationship between dose of inoculum and disease occurrence in humans and suggests an unexpected effect of sex on individual susceptibility.
29851905	Rivaroxaban	Intracranial Hemorrhage, Traumatic	1	1	0	0	0.0	The novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) have worse outcomes compared with warfarin in patients with intracranial hemorrhage after TBI.	INTRODUCTION: Novel oral anticoagulant (NOAC) use is increasing in trauma patients. The reversal of these agents after hemorrhage is still evolving. The aim of our study was to evaluate outcomes after traumatic brain injury in patients on NOACs. METHODS: 3-year (2014-2016) analysis of our prospectively maintained traumatic brain injury (TBI) database. We included all TBI patients with intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) on anticoagulants. Patients were stratified into two groups, those on NOACs and on warfarin, and were matched in a 1:2 ratio using propensity score matching for demographics, injury and vital parameters, type, and size of ICH. Outcome measures were progression of ICH, mortality, skilled nursing facility (SNF) disposition, and hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay (LOS). RESULTS: We analyzed 1,459 TBI patients, of which 210 patients were matched (NAOCs, 70; warfarin, 140). Matched groups were similar in age (p = 0.21), mechanism of injury (p = 0.61), Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score (p = 0.54), Injury Severity Score (p = 0.62), and type and size of ICH (p = 0.09). Patients on preinjury NOACs had higher rate of progression (p = 0.03), neurosurgical intervention (p = 0.04), mortality (p = 0.04), and longer ICU LOS (p = 0.04) compared with patients on warfarin. However, there was no difference in hospital LOS (p = 0.22) and SNF disposition (p = 0.14). On sub-analysis of severe TBI patients (GCS </= 8), rate of progression (p = 0.59), neurosurgical intervention (p = 0.62), or mortality (p = 0.81) was similar in both groups. CONCLUSIONS: The use of NOACs generally carries a high risk of bleeding and can be detrimental in head injuries with ICH. NOAC use is associated with increased risk of progression of ICH, neurosurgical intervention, and mortality after a mild and moderate TBI. Primary care physicians and cardiologists need to reconsider the data on the need for anticoagulation and the type of agent used and weigh it against the risk of bleeding. In addition, development of reversal agents for the NOACs and implementation of a strict protocol for the reversal of these agents may lead to improved outcomes. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic studies, level III.
31049133	Scopolamine	Inflammation	1	0	0	0		Sulforaphane-Enriched Broccoli Sprouts Pretreated by Pulsed Electric Fields Reduces Neuroinflammation and Ameliorates Scopolamine-Induced Amnesia in Mouse Brain through Its Antioxidant Ability via Nrf2-HO-1 Activation.	Activated microglia-mediated neuroinflammation plays a key pathogenic role in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and ischemia. Sulforaphane is an active compound produced after conversion of glucoraphanin by the myrosinase enzyme in broccoli (Brassica oleracea var) sprouts. Dietary broccoli extract as well as sulforaphane has previously known to mitigate inflammatory conditions in aged models involving microglial activation. Here, we produced sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts through the pretreatment of pulsed electric fields in order to trigger the biological role of normal broccoli against lipopolysaccharide-activated microglia. The sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts showed excellent potency against neuroinflammation conditions, as evidenced by its protective effects in both 6 and 24 h of microglial activation in vitro. We further postulated the underlying mechanism of action of sulforaphane in broccoli sprouts, which was the inhibition of an inflammatory cascade via the downregulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling. Simultaneously, sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts inhibited the LPS-induced activation of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and the secretions of inflammatory proteins (iNOS, COX-2, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, PGE2, etc.), which are responsible for the inflammatory cascades in both acute and chronic inflammation. It also upregulated the expression of Nrf2 and HO-1 in normal and activated microglia followed by the lowered neuronal apoptosis induced by activated microglia. Based on these results, it may exhibit anti-inflammatory effects via the NF-kappaB and Nrf2 pathways. Interestingly, sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts improved the scopolamine-induced memory impairment in mice through Nrf2 activation, inhibiting neuronal apoptosis particularly through inhibition of caspase-3 activation which could lead to the neuroprotection against neurodegenerative disorders. The present study suggests that sulforaphane-enriched broccoli sprouts might be a potential nutraceutical with antineuroinflammatory and neuroprotective activities.
31005813	Uric Acid	Hyperuricemia	0	0	0	0		Protective effects of Rhizoma smilacis glabrae extracts on potassium oxonate- and monosodium urate-induced hyperuricemia and gout in mice.	BACKGROUND: Rhizoma smilacis glabrae (RSG, tufuling) has been widely used in traditional Chinese medicine for deoxidation, dampness relief, and easing joint movement. The chemical composition of RSG has been systematically confirmed, and some of its compounds have been revealed to possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, hypouricemic, and hepatoprotective effects. PURPOSE: We aimed to clarify whether a RSG extract attenuates hyperuricemia, paw edema, and renal injury in mice with potassium oxonate (PO)- and monosodium urate (MSU)-induced chronic hyperuricemia and gout. METHODS: RSG water extract was obtained and analyzed by HPLC-DAD-MS/MS. To establish a murine model with chronic hyperuricemia and gout, PO was orally administered daily from day 0 to day 24, whereas MSU was injected into the tibiotarsal joint on day 21. The mice in the drug intervention groups were treated once daily with doses of allopurinol or RSG extract from day 21 to day 24. The diameter of the ankle joints was measured with calipers. Serum TNF-alpha and IL-1beta concentrations, hepatic XOD activity, and uric acid, creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels were also determined. The right kidney and articular cavities were fixed, cut into sections, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. RESULTS: Nine compounds in the RSG water extract were unambiguously identified as 5-O-caffeoylshikimic acid, neoastilbin, astilbin, taxifolin, neoisoastilbin, isoastilbin, engeletin, isoengeletin, and trans-resveratrol. The RSGE treatment dose-dependently reduced PO- and MSU-induced paw edema, serum TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-12, uric acid, and BUN, while significantly elevated serum IL-10, urinary uric acid and creatinine levels as compared with the respective values in the hyperuricemic and gouty mice group (vehicle group). Moreover, the hepatic XOD activity was dose-dependently reduced by the RSGE treatment. In addition, RSGE treatment not only ameliorated the infiltration of inflammatory cells, tubular dilation and vacuole formation in renal tubular, but also improved the synovial hyperplasia, reduced inflammatory cells infiltration into the synovium, and diminished the erosive damage in the cartilage. CONCLUSION: The murine model with chronic hyperuricemia and gout be built in present study is consistent with the clinical symptoms of patients with long-standing hyperuricemia and acute gouty arthritis. RSG water extract has potent efficacy in ameliorating murine hyperuricemia and gout induced by PO and MSU.
30998203	Magnesium Sulfate	Thrombocytopenia	0	0	0	0		[Second edition of the CoBioMe congress].	
30454846	Gabapentin	Disorders of Excessive Somnolence	1	0	0	0		[Effect of melatonin on the daytime sleepiness side-effect of gabapentin in adults patients with neuropathic pain].	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Gabapentin is an antiepileptic drug. Widely used for the management of neuropathic pain. Although it is known to be well tolerated, somnolence and dizziness are the most frequent adverse effects. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of melatonin on daytime sleepiness side effect of gabapentin, sleep quality and pain intensity of patients with neuropathic pain. METHODS: Patients suffering from ""neuropathic pain"" and planed to receive gabapentin therapy were randomly divided into two groups. Group 1 received melatonin 3 mg and gabapentin 900 mg orally, group 2 received matching placebo capsule and gabapentin 900 mg. The Epworth Sleepiness Scale, the Pittsburgh sleep quality index for assessment of sleep quality and Verbal Rating Scale were completed at the 0th, 10th and 30th days of treatment. Additive analgesic drug requirements were recorded. RESULTS: Eighty patients were enrolled to the study; age, gender, ratio of additive analgesic consumption, baseline Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Pittsburg Sleep Quality index and Verbal Rating Scale scores were similar between the groups. Epworth Sleepiness Scale scores, Pittsburgh sleep quality index scores and Verbal Rating Scale scores in Group 1 were significantly lower than group 2 at the 10th day of treatment (p = 0.002, p = 0.003, p = 0.002 respectively). At the 30th day of treatment, Epworth Sleepiness Scale scores and Verbal Rating Scale scores were significantly lower in Group 1 (p = 0.002, p = 0.008 respectively). However, Pittsburgh sleep quality index scores did not significantly differ between the groups (p = 0.0566). CONCLUSIONS: Melatonin supplementation rapidly and significantly improved daytime sleepiness side-effect of gabapentin, however sleep quality of the patients with neuropathic pain was similar between groups."
30404783	Alemtuzumab	Vitiligo	1	1	0	0	0.0	Vitiligo after alemtuzumab treatment: Secondary autoimmunity is not all about B cells.	OBJECTIVE: To report 3 patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) showing vitiligo after treatment with alemtuzumab. METHODS: Retrospective case series including flow cytometric analyses and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. RESULTS: We describe 3 cases of alemtuzumab-treated patients with RRMS developing vitiligo 52, 18, and 14 months after alemtuzumab initiation. Histopathology shows loss of epidermal pigmentation with absence of melanocytes and interface dermatitis with CD8(+) T-cell infiltration. Also compatible with pathophysiologic concepts of vitiligo, peripheral blood mononuclear cells of one patient showed high proportions of CD8(+) T cells with an activated (human leukocyte antigen-DR(+)), memory (CD45RO(+)), and type 1 cytokine (interferon-gamma + tumor necrosis factor-alpha) phenotype at vitiligo onset compared to a control cohort of alemtuzumab-treated patients with RRMS (n = 30). Of note, analysis of CD8 TCR repertoire in this patient revealed a highly increased clonality and reduced repertoire diversity compared to healthy controls and treatment-naive patients with RRMS. We observed a predominance of single clones at baseline in this patient and alemtuzumab treatment did not substantially affect the proportions of most abundant clones over time. CONCLUSION: The 3 cases represent a detailed description of vitiligo as a T-cell-mediated secondary autoimmune disease following alemtuzumab treatment. The prevailing concept of unleashed B-cell responses might therefore not cover all facets of alemtuzumab-related secondary autoimmunity. Mechanistic studies, especially on TCR repertoire, might help clarify the underlying mechanisms.
30396865	Ezetimibe	Vascular Diseases	0	0	0	0		Polyvascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and long-term vascular risk: a secondary analysis of the IMPROVE-IT trial.	BACKGROUND: Polyvascular disease and type 2 diabetes are each associated with increased cardiovascular risk, but whether these risks are additive is unknown. In this exploratory analysis of a randomised trial, we explored the long-term cardiovascular risk associated with polyvascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and their combination in patients with acute coronary syndrome, and assessed the effect of ezetimibe given on top of statin therapy in patients with these concomitant conditions. METHODS: IMPROVE-IT was a multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial assessing the effect of ezetimibe added to statin therapy after acute coronary syndrome. Recruitment was from Oct 26, 2005, to July 8, 2010, and the trial was done at 1158 sites in 39 countries. 18 144 patients aged 50 years and older who had been stabilised after an acute coronary syndrome were randomly assigned to 40 mg per day simvastatin plus either 10 mg per day ezetimibe or matched placebo, for a median duration of 6 years. In this post-hoc exploratory analysis, we assessed the prespecified endpoints of the trial, including the primary composite endpoint (cardiovascular death, a major coronary event [non-fatal myocardial infarction, documented unstable angina requiring hospital admission, or coronary revascularisation occurring at least 30 days after randomisation], or stroke [ischaemic or haemorrhagic]) by concomitant polyvascular disease at baseline (peripheral artery disease or previous stroke or transient ischaemic attack) and stratified by concomitant type 2 diabetes. Efficacy analyses were done according to intention to treat and event rates. IMPROVE-IT is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00202878. FINDINGS: 1005 patients (6%) had peripheral artery disease and 1071 (6%) had stroke or transient ischaemic attack at baseline. Of these, 388 (39%) and 409 (38%) also had concomitant type 2 diabetes, respectively. At 7 years, patients with either polyvascular disease or type 2 diabetes had similar rates of the primary endpoint (39.8% and 39.9%, respectively), which were higher than patients without polyvascular disease or diabetes (29.6%). Polyvascular disease with concomitant type 2 diabetes was associated with further heightened risk (60.0% 7-year Kaplan-Meier rate, adjusted hazard ratio versus those with polyvascular disease 1.60, 95% CI 1.38-1.85; p<0.0001). Ezetimibe reduced cardiovascular risk consistently across groups with greater numerical absolute risk reductions in the highest-risk subgroups. INTERPRETATION: In patients with coronary artery disease, concomitant polyvascular disease or type 2 diabetes are associated with increased long-term cardiovascular risk. The combination of polyvascular disease and diabetes is additive, resulting in very high risk. The benefit of ezetimibe is consistent in patients with and without polyvascular disease and type 2 diabetes; however, by nature of their higher risk patients with one, or especially both, of these diseases might derive the greatest absolute benefits. FUNDING: Merck.
30350178	Afatinib	Diarrhea	0	0	0	0		Phase I trial of afatinib and 3-weekly trastuzumab with optimal anti-diarrheal management in patients with HER2-positive metastatic cancer.	BACKGROUND: Trastuzumab is the mainstay of therapy for patients with HER2-positive breast and gastric cancer but resistance frequently occurs. Afatinib, an irreversible oral ErbB family blocker, shows clinical activity in trastuzumab-refractory HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This phase I study used a modified 3 + 3 dose escalation design to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral once-daily afatinib in combination with 3-weekly intravenous trastuzumab (8 mg/kg week 1; 6 mg/kg 3-weekly thereafter) for patients with confirmed advanced or metastatic HER2-positive cancer. RESULTS: Of the 13 patients treated, 6 received daily afatinib 20 mg and 7 received 30 mg. One patient who received afatinib 30 mg developed a tumor lysis syndrome and was not evaluable for dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Two of the six remaining patients receiving afatinib 30 mg and 1 of the 6 patients receiving afatinib 20 mg experienced DLTs (all CTCAE >/= grade 2 diarrhea despite optimal management) in the first treatment cycle. The most common drug-related adverse events were diarrhea (n = 13, 100%), asthenia (n = 8, 61.5%), rash (n = 7, 53.8%) and paronychia (n = 5, 38.5%). No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed. One patient (7.7%) had an objective response (20 mg afatinib cohort). Nine patients (69.2%) experienced clinical benefit. CONCLUSIONS: Despite optimal management of diarrhea including treatment of grade I symptoms, it was not possible to treat the patients above a dose of 20 mg of afatinib daily in combination with 3-weekly trastuzumab. The MTD of afatinib in combination with the recommended 3-weekly dose of trastuzumab was 20 mg daily.
30348442	Sugammadex	Bradycardia	1	1	0	1	1.0	[Severe bradycardia and asystole associated with sugammadex: case report].	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Sugamadex is a modified gamma-cyclodextrin, the first selective agent for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by steroidal non-depolarizing muscle relaxants, with greater affinity for rocuronium. In this article we present a case of severe bradycardia and asystole following sugammadex administration. CASE REPORT: A 54-year-old male patient, ASA II, with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia and obesity, who underwent an emergency umbilical herniorrhaphy under balanced general anesthesia. Intraoperative muscle relaxation was maintained with rocuronium. At the end of the surgery, the patient maintained a neuromuscular block with two TOF responses, and sugammadex (200 mg) was administered. About thirty seconds after its administration, the patient developed marked bradycardia (HR 30 bpm) followed by asystole. CONCLUSIONS: Documented bradycardia and asystole were attributed to the administration of sugammadex. This case shows that, although rare, cardiac arrest is a possible adverse effect of this drug, and that the knowledge of this situation can be determinant for the patient's evolution.
30348442	Sugammadex	Heart Arrest	1	1	0	1	1.0	[Severe bradycardia and asystole associated with sugammadex: case report].	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Sugamadex is a modified gamma-cyclodextrin, the first selective agent for reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by steroidal non-depolarizing muscle relaxants, with greater affinity for rocuronium. In this article we present a case of severe bradycardia and asystole following sugammadex administration. CASE REPORT: A 54-year-old male patient, ASA II, with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia and obesity, who underwent an emergency umbilical herniorrhaphy under balanced general anesthesia. Intraoperative muscle relaxation was maintained with rocuronium. At the end of the surgery, the patient maintained a neuromuscular block with two TOF responses, and sugammadex (200 mg) was administered. About thirty seconds after its administration, the patient developed marked bradycardia (HR 30 bpm) followed by asystole. CONCLUSIONS: Documented bradycardia and asystole were attributed to the administration of sugammadex. This case shows that, although rare, cardiac arrest is a possible adverse effect of this drug, and that the knowledge of this situation can be determinant for the patient's evolution.
30234515	Canagliflozin	Acidosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metabolic Acidosis in Postsurgical Patient on Canagliflozin and Metformin: A Case Report.	Canagliflozin is a novel drug for diabetes mellitus with the mechanisms of inducing glucosuria through inhibition of the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 in the kidney independent of insulin activity. We are reporting euglycemic ketoacidosis with severe life-threatening metabolic acidosis. The 2 patients described had type 2 diabetes mellitus and were in a state of relative starvation after abdominal surgery. The first patient had been given an oral diet but was restricted with regard to calorie and sugar intake. The second patient had been nil per os since the operation.
30234515	Canagliflozin	Postoperative Complications	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metabolic Acidosis in Postsurgical Patient on Canagliflozin and Metformin: A Case Report.	Canagliflozin is a novel drug for diabetes mellitus with the mechanisms of inducing glucosuria through inhibition of the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 in the kidney independent of insulin activity. We are reporting euglycemic ketoacidosis with severe life-threatening metabolic acidosis. The 2 patients described had type 2 diabetes mellitus and were in a state of relative starvation after abdominal surgery. The first patient had been given an oral diet but was restricted with regard to calorie and sugar intake. The second patient had been nil per os since the operation.
30234515	Metformin	Ketosis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Metabolic Acidosis in Postsurgical Patient on Canagliflozin and Metformin: A Case Report.	Canagliflozin is a novel drug for diabetes mellitus with the mechanisms of inducing glucosuria through inhibition of the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 in the kidney independent of insulin activity. We are reporting euglycemic ketoacidosis with severe life-threatening metabolic acidosis. The 2 patients described had type 2 diabetes mellitus and were in a state of relative starvation after abdominal surgery. The first patient had been given an oral diet but was restricted with regard to calorie and sugar intake. The second patient had been nil per os since the operation.
29759903	Omeprazole	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Potential Adverse Drug Events and Nephrotoxicity Related to Prophylaxis With Omeprazole for Digestive Disorders: A Prospective Cohort Study.	PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess whether prophylaxis for digestive disorders with omeprazole is a risk factor for adverse drug events (ADEs) and kidney impairment. METHODS: This was a 9-month, prospective, double-blinded cohort study performed in a Brazilian public hospital. All inpatients 18 years or older admitted during the period of data collection were divided into 2 cohorts. The first group comprised 200 patients receiving prophylaxis for digestive disorders with omeprazole. A total of 54 inpatients who received treatment with omeprazole and whose indication was not approved by the Brazilian Sanitary Agency and the US Food and Drug Administration were excluded. The second group comprised 219 inpatients without a prescription for omeprazole. Follow-up was performed until discharge and included assessment of medical records, medical prescriptions, laboratory data, and pharmaceutical anamnesis. The primary end point was kidney impairment. The variables monitored were kidney function (serum creatinine and urea levels as well as glomerular filtration rate), hepatic function (alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels), pharmacotherapy, magnesium levels, and imputation of ADEs. With the aid of algorithms of World Health Organization and the National Coordinating Council for Medication Error Reporting and Prevention, we assessed the causality of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) and the seriousness of medication errors (ADEs), respectively. FINDINGS: Prophylaxis for digestive disorders with omeprazole (P = 0.019) and sex (P = 0.010) were considered risk factors for increased serum creatinine level via multivariate logistic regression even with concomitant use of nephrotoxic drugs (P = 0.252). Six ADEs related to omeprazole were identified: 2 ADRs (1 possible and 1 definite), 2 medication errors (nonserious), 1 therapeutic failure, and 1 drug-drug interaction. IMPLICATIONS: Prophylaxis for digestive disorders with omeprazole and male sex may contribute to the development of kidney impairment because both result in increased serum creatinine levels. Therefore, pharmacotherapeutic follow-up of male patients diagnosed with kidney disorders should be considered to identify potential drug-drug interactions early. This follow-up can prevent worsening clinical conditions and/or contraindicate prophylactic use of omeprazole. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02278432.
29384829	Certolizumab Pegol	Demyelinating Diseases	1	0	0	0		Oculomotor Nerve Demyelination Secondary to Certolizumab Pegol.	
28983948	Nivolumab	Erythema Multiforme	1	0	0	0		Severe erythema exudative multiforme developing from advanced melanoma treated with dabrafenib and trametinib followed by nivolumab.	
28983944	Phenylephrine	Keratoconjunctivitis	1	0	0	0		Case of phenylephrine hydrochloride-induced periorbital contact dermatitis with fulminant keratoconjunctivitis causing pseudomembrane formation.	
30449645	Ropivacaine	Postoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		[Brainstem anesthesia after a peribulbar injection of ropivacaine].	
30449645	Ropivacaine	Unconsciousness	1	0	0	0		[Brainstem anesthesia after a peribulbar injection of ropivacaine].	
29908650	Vemurafenib	Panuveitis	1	0	0	0		[Severe panuveitis in a metastatic cutaneous melanoma patient treated with vemurafenib].	
29789925	Labetalol	Pre-Eclampsia	1	1	0	0	0.0	Associations of polymorphisms of CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 with early onset severe pre-eclampsia and response to labetalol therapy.	PURPOSE: Early onset preeclampsia (PPE) contributes to life-threatening maternal complications and fetal demise. Pharmacogenomics is a precision medicine, and metabolizing enzymes responsive to antihypertensive remains understudied. The aim of this study was to evaluate the associations of polymorphisms of cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily D, polypeptide 6 (CYP2D6) and cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily C, polypeptide 9 (CYP2C9) with PPE and the relationship among CYP2D6, CYP2C9 polymorphisms and response to labetalol therapy. METHODS: Totally 105 gravidas diagnosed with PPE (case) and 103 healthy gravidas (control) were recruited between August 2013 and July 2016. Labetalol was given to control blood pressures (BP) with PPE. If labetalol administration alone did not exceed the mean dose and effectively controlled the BP, it would be considered to be valid (n = 75). Genotype and allele frequencies of CYP2C9 gene (rs1057910 and rs4918758) and CYP2D6 gene (rs1065852, rs28371725, rs35742686, and rs3892097) were analyzed by TaqMan PCR. Differences in the genotype and allele frequencies were compared between case-control groups, and the responsive and nonresponsive to labetalol in PPE. RESULTS: Out of six variants, only CC and CT genotypes of the CYP2D6 variants (rs28371725) in PPE were significantly higher than those in the control group [18.1% (19/105) vs 14.6% (15/103); 56.2% (59/105) vs 42.7% (44/103); chi2 = 6.707]. However, there were no differences in maternal age, diastolic pressure, BMI, BW, serum triglyceride, and creatinine were observed among women with CC, CT, or TT genotype of CYP2D6 gene rs28371725 in the experimental group (all P > 0.05). Compared with the gravidas with CT or TT genotype of CYP2D6 gene rs28371725, those with CC genotype had longer gestational age [(32.5 +/- 2.1) vs (29.5 +/- 1.8) and (29.8 +/- 2.2) weeks] and higher plasma albumin [(27.2 +/- 9.3) vs (20.3 +/- 10.4) and (22.5 +/- 7.4) g/L], but lower systolic pressure and 24 h urine protein (LSD test, all P < 0.05). The G allele frequency in CYP2D6 gene rs1065852 nonresponsive to labetalol group was higher than that in responsive labetalol group [93.3% (56/60) vs 76.0% (114/150), chi2 = 8.351, P = 0.004]. CONCLUSIONS: The polymorphism of CYP2D6 gene rs28371725 may be associated with PPE, and the allele of G in CYP2D6 gene rs1065852 may be associated with the efficacy of labetalol in treatment of PPE.
29356126	Alprostadil	Peripheral Vascular Diseases	1	0	0	0		Acute vascular reaction due to lipo-prostaglandin E1.	
29314333	Nivolumab	Granuloma	1	0	0	0		Programmed cell death 1 blockade-induced cutaneous sarcoid-like epithelioid granulomas in advanced melanoma: a case report.	
28856762	Pregabalin	Long QT Syndrome	1	1	0	1	1.0	Pregbalin induced recurrent syncopal attacks with prolong QT interval.	Long QT syndrome may lead to fatal dysrhythmia. Prolongation of QT interval due to pregabalin has been shown in rats and no data is available in humans. We report a 80-year-old female patient using pregabalin. She was presented to emergency room with syncope attacks. Her admission electrocardiography demonstrated prolonged QT interval. After excluding the possible causes of the long QT syndrome, we attributed prolonged QT interval to pregabalin therapy. After discontinuation of pregabalin QT interval returned to normal range and patient experienced no further syncope attacks. It is first time for documentation of prolonged QT due to pregabalin in humans.
28856762	Pregabalin	Syncope	1	1	0	1	1.0	Pregbalin induced recurrent syncopal attacks with prolong QT interval.	Long QT syndrome may lead to fatal dysrhythmia. Prolongation of QT interval due to pregabalin has been shown in rats and no data is available in humans. We report a 80-year-old female patient using pregabalin. She was presented to emergency room with syncope attacks. Her admission electrocardiography demonstrated prolonged QT interval. After excluding the possible causes of the long QT syndrome, we attributed prolonged QT interval to pregabalin therapy. After discontinuation of pregabalin QT interval returned to normal range and patient experienced no further syncope attacks. It is first time for documentation of prolonged QT due to pregabalin in humans.
30679121	Vitamin K	Retinal Detachment	1	0	0	0		[Submacular hemorrhage with retinal detachment due to an overdose of anticoagulant during age-related macular degeneration].	
30679121	Vitamin K	Retinal Hemorrhage	1	0	0	0		[Submacular hemorrhage with retinal detachment due to an overdose of anticoagulant during age-related macular degeneration].	
30541322	Interferon alpha-2	Depression	0	1	0	1		Assessment of Incidence and Character of Neurologic/ Neuropsychiatric Complications in a Group of Patients with Malignant Melanoma Treated with Adjuvant High Dose Interferon.	BACKGROUND: Authors describe the incidence and character of neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications - particularly depression and parkinsonism - during adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma (MM) with high dose interferon (HDI). Among the most frequently observed side effects are fatigue, hematotoxicity, and hepatotoxicity. Most research has been directed at depression and parkinsonism because of the lack of literature concerning these complications. Interferon induced parkinsonism has only been described rarely and only in case reports. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-nine patients with MM, treated from January 2010 to January 2014 with adjuvant high dose interferon alfa-2b intravenous (HDI 20MIU/sqm for 5 days per week during the first 4 weeks, and then maintenance subcutaneous 10MIU/sqm up to a total time of 1 year) were retrospectively evaluated and the incidence and character of neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications were determined. RESULTS: Significant neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications were observed in 3 of the 29 patients. Dose modifications were required in 2 cases. One case developed parkinsonism and treatment had to be stopped after 10 applications of intravenous interferon. CONCLUSION: High dose interferon can cause depression and parkinsonism. Prophylaxis with antidepressant medication can keep the incidence of depression as low as 10% or lower. Development of parkinsonism during HDI is rare. According to available reports, this is the first description of parkinsonism development related to HDI in MM. Key words malignant melanoma - high dose interferon - neurologic and neuropsychiatric complication - drug-induced depression - drug-induced  parkinsonism The authors declare they have no potential conflicts of interest concerning drugs, products, or services used in the study. The Editorial Board declares that the manuscript met the ICMJE recommendation for biomedical papers. Submitted: 7. 4. 2018 Accepted: 16. 8. 2018.
30541322	Interferon alpha-2	Parkinsonian Disorders	0	1	0	1		Assessment of Incidence and Character of Neurologic/ Neuropsychiatric Complications in a Group of Patients with Malignant Melanoma Treated with Adjuvant High Dose Interferon.	BACKGROUND: Authors describe the incidence and character of neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications - particularly depression and parkinsonism - during adjuvant treatment of malignant melanoma (MM) with high dose interferon (HDI). Among the most frequently observed side effects are fatigue, hematotoxicity, and hepatotoxicity. Most research has been directed at depression and parkinsonism because of the lack of literature concerning these complications. Interferon induced parkinsonism has only been described rarely and only in case reports. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-nine patients with MM, treated from January 2010 to January 2014 with adjuvant high dose interferon alfa-2b intravenous (HDI 20MIU/sqm for 5 days per week during the first 4 weeks, and then maintenance subcutaneous 10MIU/sqm up to a total time of 1 year) were retrospectively evaluated and the incidence and character of neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications were determined. RESULTS: Significant neurologic and neuropsychiatric complications were observed in 3 of the 29 patients. Dose modifications were required in 2 cases. One case developed parkinsonism and treatment had to be stopped after 10 applications of intravenous interferon. CONCLUSION: High dose interferon can cause depression and parkinsonism. Prophylaxis with antidepressant medication can keep the incidence of depression as low as 10% or lower. Development of parkinsonism during HDI is rare. According to available reports, this is the first description of parkinsonism development related to HDI in MM. Key words malignant melanoma - high dose interferon - neurologic and neuropsychiatric complication - drug-induced depression - drug-induced  parkinsonism The authors declare they have no potential conflicts of interest concerning drugs, products, or services used in the study. The Editorial Board declares that the manuscript met the ICMJE recommendation for biomedical papers. Submitted: 7. 4. 2018 Accepted: 16. 8. 2018.
30537449	Ipilimumab	Graves Ophthalmopathy	1	0	0	0		Rapid Development of Graves' Ophthalmopathy After Treatment With Ipilimumab and Recurrence With Pembrolizumab in a Patient With Previously Treated Graves' Disease.	
30537449	Ipilimumab	Lung Neoplasms	1	0	0	0		Rapid Development of Graves' Ophthalmopathy After Treatment With Ipilimumab and Recurrence With Pembrolizumab in a Patient With Previously Treated Graves' Disease.	
30013100	Ipilimumab	Heart Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Cardiorenal complications of immune checkpoint inhibitors.	The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has driven a revolutionary change in cancer treatment. Although traditional chemotherapeutic agents remain the first-line option for most cancers, targeted immune therapies are emerging as standard treatments for advanced-stage cancers. These agents target cell surface checkpoint proteins to stimulate the recognition and destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. Clinical studies have demonstrated these immunotherapeutics to elicit favourable antitumour responses in a variety of chemotherapy-refractory malignancies. However, use of these agents can also induce immune-related adverse events (irAEs) in off-target organs, including the heart and kidney. The most common manifestations of heart and kidney damage are myocarditis and acute interstitial nephritis, respectively, but other manifestations have been reported and, although rare, these off-target effects can be life threatening. Available data suggest that ICIs induce their off-target effects through several mechanisms, including direct binding to cell surface proteins expressed in healthy tissue, activation of T cells that cross-react with off-target tissues, generation of autoantibodies or by increasing levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Greater understanding of the adverse effects of cancer immunotherapies and the underlying mechanisms will facilitate the development of biomarkers to identify at-risk patients and approaches to prevent these irAEs.
30013100	Ipilimumab	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Cardiorenal complications of immune checkpoint inhibitors.	The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has driven a revolutionary change in cancer treatment. Although traditional chemotherapeutic agents remain the first-line option for most cancers, targeted immune therapies are emerging as standard treatments for advanced-stage cancers. These agents target cell surface checkpoint proteins to stimulate the recognition and destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. Clinical studies have demonstrated these immunotherapeutics to elicit favourable antitumour responses in a variety of chemotherapy-refractory malignancies. However, use of these agents can also induce immune-related adverse events (irAEs) in off-target organs, including the heart and kidney. The most common manifestations of heart and kidney damage are myocarditis and acute interstitial nephritis, respectively, but other manifestations have been reported and, although rare, these off-target effects can be life threatening. Available data suggest that ICIs induce their off-target effects through several mechanisms, including direct binding to cell surface proteins expressed in healthy tissue, activation of T cells that cross-react with off-target tissues, generation of autoantibodies or by increasing levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Greater understanding of the adverse effects of cancer immunotherapies and the underlying mechanisms will facilitate the development of biomarkers to identify at-risk patients and approaches to prevent these irAEs.
30013100	Nivolumab	Heart Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Cardiorenal complications of immune checkpoint inhibitors.	The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has driven a revolutionary change in cancer treatment. Although traditional chemotherapeutic agents remain the first-line option for most cancers, targeted immune therapies are emerging as standard treatments for advanced-stage cancers. These agents target cell surface checkpoint proteins to stimulate the recognition and destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. Clinical studies have demonstrated these immunotherapeutics to elicit favourable antitumour responses in a variety of chemotherapy-refractory malignancies. However, use of these agents can also induce immune-related adverse events (irAEs) in off-target organs, including the heart and kidney. The most common manifestations of heart and kidney damage are myocarditis and acute interstitial nephritis, respectively, but other manifestations have been reported and, although rare, these off-target effects can be life threatening. Available data suggest that ICIs induce their off-target effects through several mechanisms, including direct binding to cell surface proteins expressed in healthy tissue, activation of T cells that cross-react with off-target tissues, generation of autoantibodies or by increasing levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Greater understanding of the adverse effects of cancer immunotherapies and the underlying mechanisms will facilitate the development of biomarkers to identify at-risk patients and approaches to prevent these irAEs.
30013100	Nivolumab	Kidney Diseases	1	1	0	1	0.0	Cardiorenal complications of immune checkpoint inhibitors.	The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has driven a revolutionary change in cancer treatment. Although traditional chemotherapeutic agents remain the first-line option for most cancers, targeted immune therapies are emerging as standard treatments for advanced-stage cancers. These agents target cell surface checkpoint proteins to stimulate the recognition and destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. Clinical studies have demonstrated these immunotherapeutics to elicit favourable antitumour responses in a variety of chemotherapy-refractory malignancies. However, use of these agents can also induce immune-related adverse events (irAEs) in off-target organs, including the heart and kidney. The most common manifestations of heart and kidney damage are myocarditis and acute interstitial nephritis, respectively, but other manifestations have been reported and, although rare, these off-target effects can be life threatening. Available data suggest that ICIs induce their off-target effects through several mechanisms, including direct binding to cell surface proteins expressed in healthy tissue, activation of T cells that cross-react with off-target tissues, generation of autoantibodies or by increasing levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Greater understanding of the adverse effects of cancer immunotherapies and the underlying mechanisms will facilitate the development of biomarkers to identify at-risk patients and approaches to prevent these irAEs.
31060282	Oxaliplatin	Neuralgia	1	0	0	0		The alpha9alpha10 Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Antagonist alphaO-Conotoxin GeXIVA[1,2] Alleviates and Reverses Chemotherapy-Induced Neuropathic Pain.	Oxaliplatin is a third-generation platinum drug and is widely used as a first-line therapy for the treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC). However, a large number of patients receiving oxaliplatin develop dose-limiting painful neuropathy. Here, we report that alphaO-conotoxin GeXIVA[1,2], a highly potent and selective antagonist of the alpha9alpha10 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtype, can relieve and reverse oxaliplatin-induced mechanical and cold allodynia after single and repeated intramuscular (IM) injections in rats. Treatments were started at 4 days post oxaliplatin injection when neuropathic pain emerged and continued for 8 and 16 days. Cold score and mechanical paw withdrawal threshold (PWT) were detected by the acetone test and von Frey test respectively. GeXIVA[1,2] significantly relieved mechanical and cold allodynia in oxaliplatin-treated rats after a single injection. After repeated treatments, GeXIVA[1,2] produced a cumulative analgesic effect without tolerance and promoted recovery from neuropathic pain. Moreover, the long lasting analgesic effect of GeXIVA[1,2] on mechanical allodynia continued until day 10 after the termination of the 16-day repeated treatment procedure. On the contrary, GeXIVA[1,2] did not affect acute mechanical and thermal pain behaviors in normal rats after repeated injections detected by the von Frey test and tail flick test. GeXIVA[1,2] had no influence on rat hind limb grip strength and body weight after repeated treatments. These results indicate that alphaO-conotoxin GeXIVA[1,2] could provide a novel strategy to treat chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
30744989	Acetaminophen	Behavioral Symptoms	1	1	0	0	0.0	Association of severe abnormal behavior and acetaminophen with/without neuraminidase inhibitors.	BACKGROUND: Even though abnormal behavior related with influenza and neuraminidase inhibitors (NI) has been discussed, the risks of acetaminophen and co-administration of NI and acetaminophen have not been examined. This study assesses those risks. MATERIALS AND METHODS: All cases of patients with influenza who present with severe abnormal behavior are reported by physicians of all clinics and hospitals throughout Japan. The numbers of people diagnosed as having influenza, whether prescribed NI and acetaminophen or not, were extracted from the National Database of Electronic Medical Claims (NDBEMC). The study period was from September 2009 to March 2016. RESULTS: We found two consistent results among four combinations of age class and severity. The one was that patients who did not use NI or acetaminophen showed significantly higher incidence of abnormal behavior than zanamivir with acetaminophen, another one was that patients with oseltamivir only has higher incidence than zanamivir with acetaminophen. Concerning about acetaminophen, the use of it significantly decrease risk for severe and the most severe instances in 5-9-year-old patients with laninamivir and the severe instances in 10-19-year-old patients with zanamivir. DISCUSSION: We also demonstrated that acetaminophen alone or co-administered with NI does not seem to raise the risk of abnormal behavior in influenza patients.
29550610	Acetaminophen	Attention Deficit and Disruptive Behavior Disorders	0	0	0	0		Pregnancy risk factors in relation to oppositional-defiant and conduct disorder symptoms in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children.	BACKGROUND: Pregnancy factors have been implicated in offspring oppositional-defiant disorder (ODD) and conduct disorder (CD) symptoms. Literature still holds notable limitations, such as studying only a restricted set of pregnancy factors, use of screening questionnaires which assess broadly defined outcome measures, and lack of control for disruptive behavior comorbidity and genetic confounds. We aimed to address these gaps by prospectively studying a broad range of pregnancy factors in relation to both offspring ODD and CD symptomatology in the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parent and Children. METHODS: Outcomes were ODD and CD symptom scores at age 7;9 years using the Development and Well-Being Assessment interview. We analyzed maternal (N  approximately  6300) and teacher ratings (N  approximately  4400) of ODD and CD scores separately using negative binomial regression in multivariable models. Control variables included comorbid attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms, ODD or CD symptoms as appropriate, and genetic risk scores based on an independent CD genome-wide association study. RESULTS: Higher ODD symptom scores were linked to paracetamol use (IRR = 1.24 [98.3% confidence interval 1.05-1.47], P = 0.002, teacher ratings) and life events stress (IRR = 1.22 [1.07-1.39], P = 0.002, maternal ratings) during pregnancy. Higher CD symptom scores were linked to maternal smoking (IRR = 1.33 [1.18-1.51], P < 0.001, maternal ratings), life events stress (IRR = 1.24 [1.11-1.38], P < 0.001, maternal ratings) and depressive symptoms (IRR = 1.14 [1.01-1.30], P = 0.006, maternal ratings) during pregnancy. CONCLUSIONS: Common and potentially preventable pregnancy risk factors were independently related to both offspring ODD and CD symptomatology in children from the general population. Future studies should further address genetic confounds and confounding by environmental factors later in life.
29345686	Arginine	Postoperative Hemorrhage	1	1	0	0	0.0	Reversal agents for non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants.	The non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) include dabigatran, which inhibits thrombin, and apixaban, betrixaban, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban, which inhibit coagulation factor Xa. Although clinical studies of NOACs were conducted without antidotes, patient outcomes with major bleeding when receiving NOACs were no worse than those in patients treated with a vitamin K antagonist. Nonetheless, in patients with life-threatening bleeding or requiring urgent surgery, the capacity for rapid NOAC reversal is likely to increase patient safety. Three NOAC reversal agents are in various stages of development: idarucizumab, a specific reversal agent for dabigatran; andexanet alfa, which reverses factor Xa inhibitors; and ciraparantag, which is purported to reverse all NOACs. Idarucizumab is licensed in many countries, andexanet is under consideration by regulatory agencies, and ciraparantag is undergoing phase III evaluation. In the absence of licensed reversal agents for the oral factor Xa inhibitors, prothrombin complex concentrates are often used in patients taking these agents who present with life-threatening bleeding. In this Review, we summarize the approved indications for the NOACs, outline how to measure their anticoagulant effects, describe the mechanism of action of the reversal strategies, assess the preclinical and clinical data supporting their use, provide guidance on potential indications for reversal, and offer a management approach for patients treated with NOACs who present with serious bleeding or require urgent surgery.
29185821	Ethanol	Neurodevelopmental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental impact of prenatal methamphetamine exposure: A comparison study of prenatally exposed children with nonexposed ADHD peers.	Prenatal methamphetamine exposure has become an increasingly pervasive concern, especially in rural-based populations and populations of lower socioeconomic status. While research has begun to highlight the effects of prenatal methamphetamine exposure, the long-term impact of this exposure remains an under-investigated topic. This study attempts to investigate the neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental effects of prenatal methamphetamine exposure by comparing the index and full-scale IQ scores on the WISC-IV between a sample of clinically referred children prenatally exposed to methamphetamine (N = 80) and a sample of clinically referred nonexposed children diagnosed with ADHD (N = 44). Children prenatally exposed to methamphetamine showed significantly lower scores on all WISC-IV domains when compared to peers with ADHD. When taking into account polysubstance exposure to alcohol, these differences remained statistically significant, with the exception of the Processing Speed Index (PSI); children reported to have been prenatally exposed to methamphetamine and to alcohol (PME) remained below ADHD peers on all other WISC-IV index scores. Within the prenatally exposed sample, regression analyses indicated that age was a significant negative predictor of PSI scores. Overall findings suggest that prenatal methamphetamine exposure is associated with a notable cognitive impact independent of polysubstance exposure to alcohol, and that the impact of this exposure on processing speed skills may become more pronounced with age.
29185821	Methamphetamine	Neurodevelopmental Disorders	1	1	0	0	0.0	Neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental impact of prenatal methamphetamine exposure: A comparison study of prenatally exposed children with nonexposed ADHD peers.	Prenatal methamphetamine exposure has become an increasingly pervasive concern, especially in rural-based populations and populations of lower socioeconomic status. While research has begun to highlight the effects of prenatal methamphetamine exposure, the long-term impact of this exposure remains an under-investigated topic. This study attempts to investigate the neurocognitive and neurodevelopmental effects of prenatal methamphetamine exposure by comparing the index and full-scale IQ scores on the WISC-IV between a sample of clinically referred children prenatally exposed to methamphetamine (N = 80) and a sample of clinically referred nonexposed children diagnosed with ADHD (N = 44). Children prenatally exposed to methamphetamine showed significantly lower scores on all WISC-IV domains when compared to peers with ADHD. When taking into account polysubstance exposure to alcohol, these differences remained statistically significant, with the exception of the Processing Speed Index (PSI); children reported to have been prenatally exposed to methamphetamine and to alcohol (PME) remained below ADHD peers on all other WISC-IV index scores. Within the prenatally exposed sample, regression analyses indicated that age was a significant negative predictor of PSI scores. Overall findings suggest that prenatal methamphetamine exposure is associated with a notable cognitive impact independent of polysubstance exposure to alcohol, and that the impact of this exposure on processing speed skills may become more pronounced with age.
31423997	Digoxin	Cardiac Tamponade	1	0	0	0		Getting to the heart of the matter in a multisystem disorder: Erdheim-Chester disease.	
31047059	Chitosan	Postoperative Complications	0	0	0	0		Internal surgical use of biodegradable carbohydrate polymers. Warning for a conscious and proper use of oxidized regenerated cellulose.	Oxidized regenerated cellulose has become a major local surgical hemostatic biomaterial because of its ease of use, favorable biocompatibility, bactericidal activity and bioabsorption characteristics. Additional clinical indications of oxidized regenerated cellulose include wound repair and tissue reconstruction. Sometimes, some unusual adverse events are described. Studies report cases of minor postoperative complications as nidus of infection or allergic reaction mainly presenting as acute dermatitis, eczema and sieroma. Also, rare and serious cases of foreign body reaction or impingement on nerve, due to not optimal bioabsorption, are showed in various surgical sites. Thus, on the one hand, patients should be informed by their clinicians of the possibility of these low incidence postoperative complications when considering preparations made of cellulose derivatives; and the clinicians should clearly indicate use of this biomaterial in the surgical procedure report so that radiologists may appropriately interpret any unusual findings potentially associated with this biomaterial use and thus avoid misdiagnosis and undue alarm in the follow-up of patients. On the other hand, the biomedical carbohydrate scientist must consider effective experimental design that substantially addresses the clinical adverse events associated with carbohydrate polymer use. Optimal development of carbohydrates for clinical use depends on excellent clinician/biomedical scientist communication.
31005866	Gabapentin	Brain Diseases	1	1	0	0	0.0	Complex encephalopathy arising from the combination of opioids and gabapentin.	The interactions between opioids and gabapentin are more clinically relevant than ever. Prescriptions dispensed for gabapentin increased from 39 million in 2012 to 64 million in 2018 in the USA and are ever increasing. Authors present a challenging case of these interactions. A 58-year-old man presented to the emergency department with acute respiratory failure and altered mental status. He was on high dose opioids and gabapentin as prescription medications. Despite full intensive care support and resolution of his respiratory failure with non-invasive positive pressure ventilation, the patient did not regained consciousness. After ruling out other causes, the diagnosis of gabapentin withdrawal was considered. Gabapentin was administered by a nasogastric tube that quickly resulted in a reversal of his symptoms. We concluded that severe gabapentin withdrawal should be considered in patients on higher doses of gabapentin when it is stopped abruptly. In such patients, gabapentin should be replaced. As most patients are unable to swallow in this situation and intravenous formulation is not available, nasogastric tube can be used for replacement.
31005866	Gabapentin	Respiratory Insufficiency	1	1	0	0	0.0	Complex encephalopathy arising from the combination of opioids and gabapentin.	The interactions between opioids and gabapentin are more clinically relevant than ever. Prescriptions dispensed for gabapentin increased from 39 million in 2012 to 64 million in 2018 in the USA and are ever increasing. Authors present a challenging case of these interactions. A 58-year-old man presented to the emergency department with acute respiratory failure and altered mental status. He was on high dose opioids and gabapentin as prescription medications. Despite full intensive care support and resolution of his respiratory failure with non-invasive positive pressure ventilation, the patient did not regained consciousness. After ruling out other causes, the diagnosis of gabapentin withdrawal was considered. Gabapentin was administered by a nasogastric tube that quickly resulted in a reversal of his symptoms. We concluded that severe gabapentin withdrawal should be considered in patients on higher doses of gabapentin when it is stopped abruptly. In such patients, gabapentin should be replaced. As most patients are unable to swallow in this situation and intravenous formulation is not available, nasogastric tube can be used for replacement.
30941998	Oxaliplatin	Lung Injury	1	0	0	0		Does Oxaliplatin increase radiotherapy-induced lung injury?	
30941998	Oxaliplatin	Radiation Injuries	1	0	0	0		Does Oxaliplatin increase radiotherapy-induced lung injury?	
30909965	Nivolumab	Endocrine System Diseases	1	1	1	1	1.0	Isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency and thyroiditis associated with nivolumab therapy in a patient with advanced lung adenocarcinoma: a case report and review of the literature.	INTRODUCTION: Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a promising class of anticancer drugs. The clinical benefits afforded by immune checkpoint inhibitors can be accompanied by immune-related adverse events that affect multiple organs, and endocrine immune-related adverse events include thyroiditis and hypophysitis. Hypophysitis is less frequent and has a less severe clinical presentation in patients treated with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab, than in those treated with ipilimumab. However, studies have described isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency cases associated with nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab therapy, most of which occurred during the course of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. We report a rare case of patient with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency that occurred after nivolumab therapy. CASE PRESENTATION: A 69-year-old Japanese woman with advanced lung adenocarcinoma developed painless thyroiditis with transient elevations of serum thyroid hormones during 3 months of cancer treatment with nivolumab and began thyroid hormone replacement therapy for subsequent primary hypothyroidism. Four months after nivolumab therapy was discontinued, she developed isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency; corticosteroid replacement therapy relieved her secondary adrenal insufficiency symptoms, such as anorexia and fatigue. Human leukocyte antigen typing revealed the presence of DRB1*04:05-DQB1*04:01-DQA1*03:03 and DRB1*09:01-DQB1*03:03-DQA1*03:02 haplotypes, which increase susceptibility to autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome associated with thyroid and pituitary disorders in the Japanese population. CONCLUSIONS: Our patient developed thyroiditis during cancer treatment with nivolumab and subsequently exhibited isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency 4 months after discontinuing the drug. Administration of nivolumab in combination with a genetic predisposition to polyglandular autoimmunity probably caused both the thyroiditis and hypophysitis, resulting in primary hypothyroidism and isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency, respectively, in our patient. The present case highlights the need for physicians to be aware that endocrine immune-related adverse events, including hypophysitis, can occur more than several months after discontinuing a drug.
30909965	Nivolumab	Genetic Diseases, Inborn	1	1	1	1	1.0	Isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency and thyroiditis associated with nivolumab therapy in a patient with advanced lung adenocarcinoma: a case report and review of the literature.	INTRODUCTION: Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a promising class of anticancer drugs. The clinical benefits afforded by immune checkpoint inhibitors can be accompanied by immune-related adverse events that affect multiple organs, and endocrine immune-related adverse events include thyroiditis and hypophysitis. Hypophysitis is less frequent and has a less severe clinical presentation in patients treated with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab, than in those treated with ipilimumab. However, studies have described isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency cases associated with nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab therapy, most of which occurred during the course of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. We report a rare case of patient with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency that occurred after nivolumab therapy. CASE PRESENTATION: A 69-year-old Japanese woman with advanced lung adenocarcinoma developed painless thyroiditis with transient elevations of serum thyroid hormones during 3 months of cancer treatment with nivolumab and began thyroid hormone replacement therapy for subsequent primary hypothyroidism. Four months after nivolumab therapy was discontinued, she developed isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency; corticosteroid replacement therapy relieved her secondary adrenal insufficiency symptoms, such as anorexia and fatigue. Human leukocyte antigen typing revealed the presence of DRB1*04:05-DQB1*04:01-DQA1*03:03 and DRB1*09:01-DQB1*03:03-DQA1*03:02 haplotypes, which increase susceptibility to autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome associated with thyroid and pituitary disorders in the Japanese population. CONCLUSIONS: Our patient developed thyroiditis during cancer treatment with nivolumab and subsequently exhibited isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency 4 months after discontinuing the drug. Administration of nivolumab in combination with a genetic predisposition to polyglandular autoimmunity probably caused both the thyroiditis and hypophysitis, resulting in primary hypothyroidism and isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency, respectively, in our patient. The present case highlights the need for physicians to be aware that endocrine immune-related adverse events, including hypophysitis, can occur more than several months after discontinuing a drug.
30909965	Nivolumab	Hypoglycemia	1	1	1	1	1.0	Isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency and thyroiditis associated with nivolumab therapy in a patient with advanced lung adenocarcinoma: a case report and review of the literature.	INTRODUCTION: Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a promising class of anticancer drugs. The clinical benefits afforded by immune checkpoint inhibitors can be accompanied by immune-related adverse events that affect multiple organs, and endocrine immune-related adverse events include thyroiditis and hypophysitis. Hypophysitis is less frequent and has a less severe clinical presentation in patients treated with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab, than in those treated with ipilimumab. However, studies have described isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency cases associated with nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab therapy, most of which occurred during the course of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. We report a rare case of patient with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency that occurred after nivolumab therapy. CASE PRESENTATION: A 69-year-old Japanese woman with advanced lung adenocarcinoma developed painless thyroiditis with transient elevations of serum thyroid hormones during 3 months of cancer treatment with nivolumab and began thyroid hormone replacement therapy for subsequent primary hypothyroidism. Four months after nivolumab therapy was discontinued, she developed isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency; corticosteroid replacement therapy relieved her secondary adrenal insufficiency symptoms, such as anorexia and fatigue. Human leukocyte antigen typing revealed the presence of DRB1*04:05-DQB1*04:01-DQA1*03:03 and DRB1*09:01-DQB1*03:03-DQA1*03:02 haplotypes, which increase susceptibility to autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome associated with thyroid and pituitary disorders in the Japanese population. CONCLUSIONS: Our patient developed thyroiditis during cancer treatment with nivolumab and subsequently exhibited isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency 4 months after discontinuing the drug. Administration of nivolumab in combination with a genetic predisposition to polyglandular autoimmunity probably caused both the thyroiditis and hypophysitis, resulting in primary hypothyroidism and isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency, respectively, in our patient. The present case highlights the need for physicians to be aware that endocrine immune-related adverse events, including hypophysitis, can occur more than several months after discontinuing a drug.
30909965	Nivolumab	Thyroiditis	1	1	1	1	1.0	Isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency and thyroiditis associated with nivolumab therapy in a patient with advanced lung adenocarcinoma: a case report and review of the literature.	INTRODUCTION: Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a promising class of anticancer drugs. The clinical benefits afforded by immune checkpoint inhibitors can be accompanied by immune-related adverse events that affect multiple organs, and endocrine immune-related adverse events include thyroiditis and hypophysitis. Hypophysitis is less frequent and has a less severe clinical presentation in patients treated with other immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab, than in those treated with ipilimumab. However, studies have described isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency cases associated with nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab therapy, most of which occurred during the course of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. We report a rare case of patient with isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency that occurred after nivolumab therapy. CASE PRESENTATION: A 69-year-old Japanese woman with advanced lung adenocarcinoma developed painless thyroiditis with transient elevations of serum thyroid hormones during 3 months of cancer treatment with nivolumab and began thyroid hormone replacement therapy for subsequent primary hypothyroidism. Four months after nivolumab therapy was discontinued, she developed isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency; corticosteroid replacement therapy relieved her secondary adrenal insufficiency symptoms, such as anorexia and fatigue. Human leukocyte antigen typing revealed the presence of DRB1*04:05-DQB1*04:01-DQA1*03:03 and DRB1*09:01-DQB1*03:03-DQA1*03:02 haplotypes, which increase susceptibility to autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome associated with thyroid and pituitary disorders in the Japanese population. CONCLUSIONS: Our patient developed thyroiditis during cancer treatment with nivolumab and subsequently exhibited isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency 4 months after discontinuing the drug. Administration of nivolumab in combination with a genetic predisposition to polyglandular autoimmunity probably caused both the thyroiditis and hypophysitis, resulting in primary hypothyroidism and isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency, respectively, in our patient. The present case highlights the need for physicians to be aware that endocrine immune-related adverse events, including hypophysitis, can occur more than several months after discontinuing a drug.
30530392	Cefuroxime	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		Severe Anaphylaxis With Cardiac Arrest Caused by Prick Test With Cefuroxime.	
30530392	Cefuroxime	Shock	1	0	0	0		Severe Anaphylaxis With Cardiac Arrest Caused by Prick Test With Cefuroxime.	
30171299	Denosumab	Fanconi Syndrome	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe hypophosphatemia induced by denosumab in a patient with osteomalacia and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-related acquired Fanconi syndrome.	Denosumab, a novel agent that inhibits osteoclasts, reduces the risk of fracture in patients with osteoporosis. However, worsening of hypophosphatemia and other symptoms may be induced by denosumab in patients with pre-existing hypophosphatemic osteomalacia. A 58-year-old man with hepatitis B presented with diffuse bone pain and muscle weakness. Denosumab was prescribed by the orthopedist according to documented low bone mass and spine compression fracture. After administering denosumab, the patient's bone pain worsened, and he later developed a right tibia stress fracture. His condition was diagnosed as adult-onset hypophosphatemic osteomalacia complicated by multiple bone fractures, which resulted from Fanconi syndrome with proximal tubulopathy due to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) treatment for his hepatitis B. Denosumab use leads to aggressive hypophosphatemic osteomalacia and the complication of stress fractures, because of its effects on bone resorption. Physicians should be aware that in patients with chronic hepatitis B monoinfection who are administered TDF therapy, bone pain or fracture is possible but preventable by timely monitoring of serum phosphate levels. Denosumab should not be used in patients with untreated osteomalacia or vitamin D deficiency, as it may lead not only to hypocalcemia but also to hypophosphatemia in these patients.
29300536	Omalizumab	Polyendocrinopathies, Autoimmune	1	1	0	1	1.0	Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2 in patient with severe allergic asthma treated with omalizumab.	Asthma therapy with monoclonal antibodies is a promising and effective approach for those with a severe and refractory type of disease. Although such a targeted therapy is considered to be safe, unusual complications may occur. We present a case of a 45 year-old female patient with severe allergic asthma and chronic spontaneous urticaria, who developed autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2 (APS-2) after 26 months of omalizumab administration. The patient was diagnosed with primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison's disease) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis accompanied by autoimmune atrophic gastritis. According to our knowledge this is the first description of APS-2 that developed in conjunction with omalizumab treatment, although we have no evidence that the observed phenomenon indicated a cause-effect relationship to omalizumab.
31121347	Germanium	Influenza, Human	1	1	0	0	0.0	Potential effect of germanium exposure on the risk of influenza-like illness in housewives in Shanxi Province, China.	Few studies have examined the relationship between exposure to germanium (Ge) and the risk of influenza-like illness (ILI). Therefore, we investigated the association of Ge exposure and its interaction with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) related to Phase II metabolism on ILI risk among housewives in Shanxi Province, northern China. This cross-sectional study enrolled 373 housewives. Information on the housewives' characteristics and the frequency of ILI was collected by questionnaire. We analyzed the Ge concentrations in hair samples taken from near the scalp at the back of the head. Blood samples were used to identify SNPs related to Phase II metabolism. The results suggested that the hair Ge concentration was associated with ILI risk with an adjusted odds ratio and 95% confidence interval of 2.59 (1.61-4.19). A significant dose-response relationship was observed without or with adjusting for confounders. We did not observe any interaction effect between the hair Ge concentration and the SNPs on ILI risk. We found that high dietary consumption of meat and fried foods was positively correlated with the hair Ge concentration. Therefore, chronic Ge exposure may be a risk factor for an increased frequency of ILI in housewives.
30536927	Sertraline	Bile Duct Diseases	1	0	0	0		Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic: Sertraline-induced vanishing bile duct syndrome treated with plasmapheresis.	
30350785	Exenatide	Anaphylaxis	1	0	0	0		Anaphylaxis to Long-Acting Release Exenatide.	
29939143	Dimethyl Fumarate	Hypersensitivity, Delayed	1	0	0	0		Delayed Hypersensitivity Reaction to Oral Dimethyl Fumarate.	
29912998	Exenatide	Hypoglycemia	0	0	0	0		Safety of Once-weekly Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Receptor Agonists in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes.	Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) have been found efficacious in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D), demonstrating the ability to lower HbA1c, and having the potential for inducing weight loss and reducing the risk of hypoglycemia, compared with other antihyperglycemic agents. Currently, 4 once-weekly (OW) GLP-1 RAs are approved: albiglutide, dulaglutide, exenatide ER, and recently, semaglutide. This review compares the relative safety of OW GLP-1 RAs, as well as their safety in comparison to other antihyperglycemic agents, using safety data reported in key sponsor-led phase 3 studies of the 4 OW GLP-1 RAs. The favorable safety profiles of OW GLP-1 RAs, added to their efficacy and the favorable weekly dosing regimen, make these agents appropriate options for patients with T2D. However, there are key differences within this class of drugs in macrovascular, microvascular, gastrointestinal and injection-site reaction adverse events, and these should be considered when healthcare providers are prescribing therapy.
29674658	Etoposide	Thrombotic Microangiopathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	High-dose Carboplatin/Etoposide/Melphalan increases risk of thrombotic microangiopathy and organ injury after autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with neuroblastoma.	Transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TA-TMA) is an increasingly recognized complication of hematopoietic cell transplant that can result in multi-organ failure (MOF). Patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplant (aHCT) for neuroblastoma require good organ function to receive post-transplant radiation and immunotherapy. We examined TA-TMA incidence and transplant outcomes in patients with neuroblastoma receiving different transplant preparative regimens. Sixty patients underwent aHCT using high-dose chemotherapy: 41 patients received carboplatin/etoposide/melphalan (CEM), 13 patients busulfan/melphalan (Bu/Mel) and six patients received tandem transplant (cyclophosphamide/thiotepa and CEM). TA-TMA with MOF was diagnosed in 13 patients (21.7%) at a median of 18 days after aHCT. TA-TMA occurred in 12 patients receiving CEM and in 1 after cyclophosphamide/thiotepa. There were no incidences of TA-TMA after Bu/Mel regimen. Six of 13 patients with TA-TMA and MOF received terminal complement blocker eculizumab for therapy. They all recovered organ function and received planned post-transplant therapy. Out of seven patients who did not get eculizumab, two died from TA-TMA complications and four progressed to ESRD. We conclude that the CEM regimen is associated with a high incidence of clinically significant TA-TMA after aHCT and eculizumab can be safe and effective treatment option to remediate TA-TMA associated MOF.
29674658	Melphalan	Thrombotic Microangiopathies	1	1	0	0	0.0	High-dose Carboplatin/Etoposide/Melphalan increases risk of thrombotic microangiopathy and organ injury after autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with neuroblastoma.	Transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TA-TMA) is an increasingly recognized complication of hematopoietic cell transplant that can result in multi-organ failure (MOF). Patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplant (aHCT) for neuroblastoma require good organ function to receive post-transplant radiation and immunotherapy. We examined TA-TMA incidence and transplant outcomes in patients with neuroblastoma receiving different transplant preparative regimens. Sixty patients underwent aHCT using high-dose chemotherapy: 41 patients received carboplatin/etoposide/melphalan (CEM), 13 patients busulfan/melphalan (Bu/Mel) and six patients received tandem transplant (cyclophosphamide/thiotepa and CEM). TA-TMA with MOF was diagnosed in 13 patients (21.7%) at a median of 18 days after aHCT. TA-TMA occurred in 12 patients receiving CEM and in 1 after cyclophosphamide/thiotepa. There were no incidences of TA-TMA after Bu/Mel regimen. Six of 13 patients with TA-TMA and MOF received terminal complement blocker eculizumab for therapy. They all recovered organ function and received planned post-transplant therapy. Out of seven patients who did not get eculizumab, two died from TA-TMA complications and four progressed to ESRD. We conclude that the CEM regimen is associated with a high incidence of clinically significant TA-TMA after aHCT and eculizumab can be safe and effective treatment option to remediate TA-TMA associated MOF.
29106013	Methamphetamine	AIDS-Related Opportunistic Infections	1	0	0	0		Penile ulcer in a 58-year-old HIV-positive patient after local injection of methamphetamine (crystal meth).	
29106013	Methamphetamine	Penile Diseases	1	0	0	0		Penile ulcer in a 58-year-old HIV-positive patient after local injection of methamphetamine (crystal meth).	
29106013	Methamphetamine	Skin Ulcer	1	0	0	0		Penile ulcer in a 58-year-old HIV-positive patient after local injection of methamphetamine (crystal meth).	
31247693	Nivolumab	Nephritis, Interstitial	1	1	0	0	0.0	[A Case of Late Onset Nivolumab-Induced Interstitial Nephritis in a Patient with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma].	A 43-year-old man underwent nephrectomy for right renal cell carcinoma (cT3aN0M1 (PUL), clear cell carcinoma). Thereafter, he was treated with sunitinib for lung metastases as the first-line therapy for three months. Because lung metastases progressed and new bone metastases appeared, nivolumab was started for the second-line treatment. Although the cancer progression was suppressed by multidisciplinary treatment combined with systemic immunotherapy and local radiation therapy, he developed severe acute kidney injury with cortical swelling after eighteen months of nivolumab treatment. A diagnosis of acute interstitial nephritis induced by nivolumab was made based on biopsy findings. Treatment with prednisolone (1.0 mg/kg daily) led to a rapid improvement in renal function. We must consider the possibility of immunerelated adverse events, especially nivolumab-induced acute kidney injury, even after long-term treatment.
31080201	Propranolol	Esophageal and Gastric Varices	1	0	0	0		Impact of non-selective beta blockers on portal hypertension and hepatic elasticity in hepatitis C virus-related liver cirrhosis.	Portal hypertension and its complications are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in patients with liver cirrhosis. Noninvasive assessment of liver stiffness had been an effective tool for assessment of fibrosis progression in chronic liver disease. It was intended to assess liver stiffness measurement (LSM), portal vein diameter (PVD), splenic bipolar diameter (SD), and the platelet count/spleen diameter (PC/SD) ratio in patients who test positive for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) and to study the impact of non-selective beta blockers (NSBB) on the grade of esophageal varices (EVs) and liver elasticity. Subjects were 80 patients with Child-Pugh grade A or B compensated cirrhosis who tested positive for HCV. All of the patients underwent a laboratory workup including AFP, HCV antibodies, HCV RNA, HBsAg, LSM according to real-time elastography, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (UGIE) to detect and grade EVs, calculation of the PC/SD ratio, and measurement of the PVD and SD according to real-time abdominal ultrasonography. All patients were given the maximum tolerated dose of NSBB for three months, and UGIE, LSM, PC/SD, PVD, and SD were subsequently reassessed and reported. LSM and the PC/SD ratio were exceptional noninvasive tools for prediction of significant EVs (grade >/= II, p < 0.001) with a sensitivity 82.4% and a specificity 82.6% at a cutoff point 18 kPa for LSM, and a sensitivity 94.1% and specificity 69.6% at a cutoff point 880 for the PC/SD ratio. LSM is highly correlated with PVD, the PC/SD ratio, SD, and the Child-Pugh score. NSBB significantly decreased PVD. The percent change in PVD significantly correlated with LSM, the grade of EVs, and SD. Findings indicated that LSM is a noninvasive, rapid, and reproducible tool with which to detect portal hypertension and EVs. NSBB therapy can effectively decrease PVD and may consequently improve the EV grade with no significant impact on LSM in patients with liver cirrhosis.
30996068	Oxaliplatin	Rhabdomyolysis	1	1	0	0	0.0	Severe rhabdomyolysis related to oxaliplatin adjuvant therapy for colorectal cancer.	Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in men and the second in women. The standard chemotherapy regiment in stage III colon cancer is based in oxaliplatin. The most common side effects include neutropenia, peripheral neuropathy, vomiting and diarrhoea. Rhabdomyolysis due to oxaliplatin is rare, and there are no established guidelines for managing this adverse event. This report describes a case of a 52-year-old man, with a resected stage III colon cancer that started postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine plus oxaliplatin. After the second cycle, the patient developed distal muscle pain and weakness, with a total inability to walk. Blood tests showed an elevated creatine kinase and renal injury. Severe drug-related rhabdomyolysis was diagnosed. The goal of this case report is to discuss the side effect of adjuvant chemotherapy, given its rarity and severity.
30221747	Paroxetine	Dementia	1	0	0	0		Cumulative Antidepressant Use and Risk of Dementia in a Prospective Cohort Study.	OBJECTIVES: To determine whether antidepressant use is associated with dementia risk. DESIGN: Prospective cohort study. SETTING: Kaiser Permanente Washington (KPWA), an integrated healthcare delivery system. PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling individuals aged 65 and older without dementia and with 10 years or more of KPWA enrollment at baseline (N=3,059). MEASUREMENTS: Primary exposures were selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (paroxetine vs other), tricyclic antidepressants, and serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitors. Using health plan pharmacy data, we calculated cumulative medication exposure, defined as total standardized daily doses (TSDDs), over rolling 10-year windows. Exposure in the most recent year was excluded to avoid use related to prodromal symptoms. The Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument was administered every 2 years; low scores triggered clinical evaluation and consensus diagnosis procedures. Dementia risk was estimated according to medication use using Cox proportional hazards models. RESULTS: During a mean follow-up of 7.7 years, 775 participants (25%) developed dementia; 659 (22%) developed possible or probable Alzheimer's disease. Individual antidepressant classes were not associated with differences in dementia risk, although paroxetine use was associated with higher risk of dementia for all TSDD categories than no use (0-90 TSDDs: hazard ratio (HR)=1.69, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.18-2.42; 91-365 TSDDs: HR=1.40, 95% CI=0.88-2.23; 366-1095 TSDDs: HR=2.13, 95% CI=1.32-3.43; >/=1095 TSDDs: HR=1.42, 95% CI=0.82-2.46). CONCLUSION: Most commonly prescribed nonanticholinergic depression medications used in late life do not appear to be associated with dementia risk. Paroxetine and other anticholinergic antidepressants may be exceptions in older individuals. Future studies are warranted to improve scientific understanding of potential associations in other settings and populations.
30004624	Sevoflurane	Emergence Delirium	1	0	0	0		Effects of remifentanil maintenance during recovery on emergence delirium in children with sevoflurane anesthesia.	BACKGROUND: Emergence delirium is a common complication of sevoflurane anesthesia in children. AIMS: We examined the effects of maintaining remifentanil infusion during the recovery period on the incidence of emergence delirium in preschool-age children undergoing strabismus surgery under sevoflurane anesthesia. METHODS: Eighty children (aged 3-7 years) were randomly assigned to either the control group (group C; intraoperative remifentanil infusion) or the intervention group (group R; intraoperative remifentanil infusion followed by remifentanil maintenance during the recovery phase). Intraoperative remifentanil infusion (0.2 mug/kg/min) was discontinued upon surgery completion in the group C, and was maintained until the discharge criteria were met at a dose of 0.05 mug/kg/min in the group R. The incidence of emergence delirium was assessed using a five-point agitation scale and the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium scale after arrival in the postanesthesia care unit. Postoperative pain was assessed using the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale. RESULTS: The incidence of emergence delirium according to the five-point agitation scale (scores >/= 4) was lower in the group R (33.3%) compared to the group C (68.3%) (odds ratio 0.206; 95% CI 0.080 to 0.531; P = 0.002). Similar results were obtained using the Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium scale (scores > 12), with an incidence of 5.1% in the group R and 34.0% in the control group (odds ratio 0.104; 95% CI 0.022 to 0.497; P = 0.001). The Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale scores and occurrence of postoperative adverse events including laryngospasm, desaturation, nausea, and vomiting were similar between the two groups. CONCLUSION: Maintaining a low dose of remifentanil (0.05 mug/kg/min) throughout the recovery phase attenuated the incidence of emergence delirium in children undergoing strabismus surgery under sevoflurane anesthesia.
29935661	Imatinib Mesylate	Conjunctival Diseases	1	0	0	0		Imatinib-Related Conjunctival Pigmentation.	
29784093	Polytetrafluoroethylene	Conjunctival Diseases	0	0	0	0		Pigmentary Reaction around Gore-Tex Suture in a Scleral-Fixated Intraocular Lens.	
29784093	Polytetrafluoroethylene	Hyperpigmentation	0	0	0	0		Pigmentary Reaction around Gore-Tex Suture in a Scleral-Fixated Intraocular Lens.	
29359617	Alemtuzumab	Anemia, Hemolytic, Autoimmune	1	1	0	1	1.0	Simultaneous early-onset severe autoimmune hemolytic anemia and albuminuria during alemtuzumab treatment for multiple sclerosis.	BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab, approved for multiple sclerosis (MS), can cause secondary autoimmune adverse events including thyroid disorders, immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), and glomerular nephropathies. Non-ITP autoimmune cytopenias are rarely reported. OBJECTIVE: To report a case of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) and nephropathy in a MS patient treated with alemtuzumab. CASE REPORT: A 34-year-old man with MS developed albuminuria and AIHA after the first and only alemtuzumab treatment, with positive Coombs' direct and indirect tests and IgG autoantibodies. Both AIHA and nephropathy resolved 1 month after treatment with steroids and intravenous immunoglobulins. CONCLUSION: Our report adds to literature on AIHA and nephropathy after alemtuzumab treatment and suggests to add Coombs' tests to the screening panel required for alemtuzumab treatment.
29935599	Sugammadex	Bradycardia	1	0	0	0		Sugammadex-induced bradycardia and asystole: how great is the risk?	
29935599	Sugammadex	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		Sugammadex-induced bradycardia and asystole: how great is the risk?	
29857011	Nivolumab	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Characterization of dermatitis after PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy and association with multiple oncologic outcomes: A retrospective case-control study.	BACKGROUND: Cutaneous adverse events are common with programmed death 1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors. However, the nature of the specific cutaneous adverse event of dermatitis has not been investigated across various PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. Oncologic outcomes potentially associated with dermatitis are not well characterized. OBJECTIVE: To assess the nature of dermatitis after exposure to a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor and oncologic outcomes associated with dermatitis. METHODS: Retrospective, matched, case-control study conducted at a single academic center. RESULTS: The most common histologic patterns were lichenoid dermatitis (50%) and spongiotic dermatitis (40%). The overall tumor response rate was 65.0% for the case patients and 17.0% for the controls (P = .0007) (odds ratio, 7.3; 95% confidence interval, 2.3-23.1). The progression-free survival and overall survival times were significantly longer for the case patients than for the controls by Kaplan-Meier analysis (P < .0001 and .0203, respectively). LIMITATIONS: The retrospective design and relatively small sample size precluded matching for all cancer types. CONCLUSIONS: Lichenoid and spongiotic dermatitis associated with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors could be a sign of robust immune response and improved oncologic outcomes. The value of PD-1/PD-L1-related dermatitis in predicting cancer outcomes awaits investigation through prospective multicenter studies for specific cancer types.
28746055	Insulin	Carcinoma, Verrucous	0	0	0	0		A Verrucous Plaque on the Abdomen: Challenge.	
29398234	Moxifloxacin	Glaucoma, Open-Angle	1	1	1	1	0.0	Bilateral acute iris transillumination syndrome. A case report.	OBJECTIVE: To present a case report of a patient with a bilateral acute iris transillumination syndrome (BAIT). METHODS: BAIT syndrome is a new clinical condition characterised by severe transillumination of the iris, acute onset of pigment dispersion in the anterior chamber, and a medial mydriatic pupil that is unresponsive or poorly responsive to light, due to a sphincter paralysis. Patients with BAIT generally present with acute ocular pain, photophobia, and red eyes. DISCUSSION: The case is presented of a 53 year-old woman, who, after being treated with moxifloxacin for an upper respiratory tract infection, developed a BAIT syndrome, which was initially diagnosed as acute anterior uveitis. CONCLUSION: As far as is known this is the first case reported in Navarra, but more case reports are needed to establish clear patterns about this condition.
29398234	Moxifloxacin	Mydriasis	1	1	1	1	0.0	Bilateral acute iris transillumination syndrome. A case report.	OBJECTIVE: To present a case report of a patient with a bilateral acute iris transillumination syndrome (BAIT). METHODS: BAIT syndrome is a new clinical condition characterised by severe transillumination of the iris, acute onset of pigment dispersion in the anterior chamber, and a medial mydriatic pupil that is unresponsive or poorly responsive to light, due to a sphincter paralysis. Patients with BAIT generally present with acute ocular pain, photophobia, and red eyes. DISCUSSION: The case is presented of a 53 year-old woman, who, after being treated with moxifloxacin for an upper respiratory tract infection, developed a BAIT syndrome, which was initially diagnosed as acute anterior uveitis. CONCLUSION: As far as is known this is the first case reported in Navarra, but more case reports are needed to establish clear patterns about this condition.
28757132	Ketamine	Long Term Adverse Effects	1	1	0	0	0.0	Side-effects associated with ketamine use in depression: a systematic review.	This is the first systematic review of the safety of ketamine in the treatment of depression after single and repeated doses. We searched MEDLINE, PubMed, PsycINFO, and Cochrane Databases and identified 288 articles, 60 of which met the inclusion criteria. After acute dosing, psychiatric, psychotomimetic, cardiovascular, neurological, and other side-effects were more frequently reported after ketamine treatment than after placebo in patients with depresssion. Our findings suggest a selective reporting bias with limited assessment of long-term use and safety and after repeated dosing, despite these being reported in other patient groups exposed to ketamine (eg, those with chronic pain) and in recreational users. We recommend large-scale clinical trials that include multiple doses of ketamine and long-term follow up to assess the safety of long-term regular use.
30466923	Aluminum	Autistic Disorder	1	0	0	0		Aluminium in brain tissue in autism.	
29559356	Thioctic Acid	Acidosis	1	1	1	1	0.0	Alpha lipoic acid intoxication: An adult.	INTRODUCTION: Alpha lipoic acid (ALA) is a potent antioxidant used to treat a variety of disorders. Although ALA is considered a very safe supplement and intoxication is very rare, acute high-dose ingestions can cause mortality. In this report, we discuss a very rare case of ALA intoxication to increase awareness of this issue. CASE REPORT: A 22-year-old female was referred to our emergency department with ALA intoxication after ingesting a total of 18g of ALA with a suicidal intention. The patient was found in an altered mental state and confused. During the physical examination, the patient's Glasgow Coma Scale was 13 (E4M6V3); however, she was neither alert nor oriented. Vital signs revealed a mildly decreased blood pressure, tachycardia, and an increased respiratory rate. Cranial nerve examination was normal except a horizontal gaze nystagmus. Laboratory testing showed a decompensated metabolic acidosis. T wave inversions were seen in the electrocardiography (EKG). The patient was treated with supportive treatment and discharged within three days of intensive care unit (ICU) admission. CONCLUSION: ALA is a very common supplement that is easily accessible worldwide. Although ALA intoxication is very rare, it is sometimes seen after accidental or suicidal acute ingestion. Neurologic effects, metabolic acidosis, and t wave inversions in the EKG are observed when this acute poisoning occurs. Supportive treatment should be the main therapy.
29359614	Alemtuzumab	Anemia, Hemolytic, Autoimmune	1	1	0	0	0.0	Life-threatening autoimmune warm hemolytic anemia following treatment for multiple sclerosis with alemtuzumab.	BACKGROUND: Alemtuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody directed at CD52 approved as a disease-modifying therapy for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). OBJECTIVE: To describe a case of a life-threatening autoimmune anemia occurring after a first course of alemtuzumab for relapsing-remitting MS in a 28-year-old male. METHODS: Case report. RESULTS: A 28-year-old male developed a life-threatening autoimmune anemia occurring 11 months after first alemtuzumab course. CONCLUSION: We report the third case of autoimmune hemolytic anemia following treatment with alemtuzumab in a young MS patient. Due to the severity of this adverse event, neurologists using this treatment should be alert.
29935601	Sugammadex	Intraoperative Complications	1	0	0	0		Severe bradycardia and asystole after sugammadex.	
30025829	Nivolumab	Skin Diseases, Vesiculobullous	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bullous disorders associated with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 therapy: A retrospective analysis evaluating the clinical and histopathologic features, frequency, and impact on cancer therapy.	BACKGROUND: Bullous disorders associated with anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) therapy are increasingly reported and may pose distinct therapeutic challenges. Their frequency and impact on cancer therapy are not well established. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical and histopathologic findings, frequency, and impact on cancer therapy of bullous eruptions due to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients evaluated by the oncodermatology clinic and consultative service of Yale New Haven Hospital from 2016 to 2018. RESULTS: We identified 9 of 853 patients who developed bullous eruptions ( approximately 1%) that were treated with an-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy at our institution during the study period: 7 presented with bullous pemphigoid, 1 presented with bullous lichenoid dermatitis, and 1 presented with linear IgA bullous dermatosis in the context of vancomycin therapy. In all, 8 patients required systemic steroids, 5 required maintenance therapy, and 8 required interruption of immunotherapy. All 9 patients had an initial positive tumor response or stable disease, but 4 went on to develop disease progression. LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study from a single tertiary care center. CONCLUSIONS: Bullous disorders developed in approximately 1% of patients treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy at our institution and frequently resulted in interruption of immune therapy and management with systemic corticosteroids and occasionally steroid-sparing agents.
29935601	Sugammadex	Bradycardia	1	0	0	0		Severe bradycardia and asystole after sugammadex.	
29935601	Sugammadex	Heart Arrest	1	0	0	0		Severe bradycardia and asystole after sugammadex.	
30025829	Nivolumab	Lichenoid Eruptions	1	1	0	0	0.0	Bullous disorders associated with anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 therapy: A retrospective analysis evaluating the clinical and histopathologic features, frequency, and impact on cancer therapy.	BACKGROUND: Bullous disorders associated with anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) therapy are increasingly reported and may pose distinct therapeutic challenges. Their frequency and impact on cancer therapy are not well established. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical and histopathologic findings, frequency, and impact on cancer therapy of bullous eruptions due to anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients evaluated by the oncodermatology clinic and consultative service of Yale New Haven Hospital from 2016 to 2018. RESULTS: We identified 9 of 853 patients who developed bullous eruptions ( approximately 1%) that were treated with an-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy at our institution during the study period: 7 presented with bullous pemphigoid, 1 presented with bullous lichenoid dermatitis, and 1 presented with linear IgA bullous dermatosis in the context of vancomycin therapy. In all, 8 patients required systemic steroids, 5 required maintenance therapy, and 8 required interruption of immunotherapy. All 9 patients had an initial positive tumor response or stable disease, but 4 went on to develop disease progression. LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study from a single tertiary care center. CONCLUSIONS: Bullous disorders developed in approximately 1% of patients treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy at our institution and frequently resulted in interruption of immune therapy and management with systemic corticosteroids and occasionally steroid-sparing agents.
